THORACIC SURGERY CLINIC NOTE CHIEF COMPLAINT Left upper lobe cavitary lesion . 
IDENTIFICATION This is a 64-year - old gentleman who was seen by Dr. Mulligan . 
He presented with intermittent hemoptysis for which he was investigated by means of a chest x - ray , CT , PET - CT . 
He has undergone PFTs , a transverse thoracic echocardiogram , left and right heart catheterization , PFTs , and a perfusion study . 
He is here for his preop H&P. He has a left upper lobe cavitary lesion that measures an SUV max of 9.3 . 
He also has had an A / P window lymph node at station 5 which demonstrates intense FDG uptake , with SUV max of 8.5 . 
Echocardiogram performed on October 5 , 2011 showed an EF of 77% . 
The peak gradient across the aortic valve is 60 mmHg with a mean gradient of 37 mmHg with trace aortic valve regurgitation . 
The aortic valve was poorly seen . 
The valve leaflets are heavily calcified and appear congenitally malformed . 
A bicuspid valve could not be excluded by the transthoracic study . 
There is a significant anterior grade step - up across the valve , consistent with at least moderate and probably moderate to severe aortic stenosis , and AVA calculation can not be made . 
His PFTs showed severe obstruction . 
He was also evaluated by a perfusion study . 
A cardiac cath performed December 6 , 2011 showed nonobstructive coronary artery disease . 
PAST MEDICAL AND SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) . 2 . 
Habit in excess of 60-pack - year smoking history , having quit approximately 12 months ago . 
3 . 
BPH . 4 . Renal - cell cancer , having undergone a left - sided nephrectomy and having a baseline creatinine of 1.6 . 5 . 
Multiple disk herniations . 
6 . 
Appendectomy . 7 . 
Repeated admissions for small bowel obstruction at least 4 times in the past 18 months , which was treated conservatively . ALLERGIES 
NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Lisinopril 5 mg daily . 2 . 
Advair Diskus 250 mcg/50 mcg inhalation 1 puff twice a day . 3 . 
Jalyn 1 capsule daily . 
4 . 
Combivent 1 to 2 puffs as needed . 
5 . Tylenol as needed . 
SOCIAL HISTORY The patient is a retired groundsman who works on lawns . 
He has a 60-pack - year smoking history . 
Moderate alcohol intake . 
He lives in in Bonney Lake . 
FAMILY HISTORY Notable for coronary artery disease . 
His father died of an MI . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : 
Blood pressure is 123/69 , heart rate 83 , temperature 98.4 , oxygen saturation 91% on room air . 
Weight is 237.4 pounds or 107.7 kg . 
HEENT : Head is normocephalic . 
Pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation . 
There are no oral lesions . 
NECK : Supple with chin to chest . 
HEME : There is no cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy . 
No bruising noted . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : Regular rate and rhythm with about a 1 - 2/6 murmur heard best at the first and second ICS . 
There are no carotid bruits . 
He has no JVD . 
Positive carotid , radial , and pedal pulse . 
No edema . 
LUNGS : Lung sounds clear to auscultation with no rales , rubs , or rhonchi . 
GASTROINTESTINAL : Positive bowel sounds . 
Obese , soft , nontender . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : Full range of motion . 
Normal gait . 
SKIN : Fingertips are warm and pink . 
There are no visible lesions . 
No bruising noted . 
NEUROLOGIC : Cranial nerves grossly intact . 
Normal sensation in extremities . 
PSYCH : She is oriented to person , place , and time . 
Asks age - appropriate questions . ASSESSMENT AND PLAN 
This is a 64-year - old gentleman with a left upper lobe cavitary lesion , and an A / P window lymph node with a SUV of 9 on PET study . 
Dr. Mulligan had a detailed discussion with the patient . 
The patient will undergo a navigational bronchoscopy for biopsy .
Dr. Kelley Branch was consulted in regard to patient 's moderate to severe aortic stenosis . 
Per Dr. Branch , his aortic stenosis is more on the moderate side , and riding the severe line , will be okay to undergo the procedure as long as Cardiac Anesthesia is present . 
Again all the patient 's questions were answered . 