November 28 , 2011 Ann Courtney Long , MD Box 356522 Seattle , WA 
Re : SMITH , Bruce Douglas U2666086 Dear Doctor Long : 
Today , as per your request , I saw your patient , Bruce Douglas Smith , in consultation for his cavitary left upper lobe lung lesion that was heralded by hemoptysis two months ago . 
He has been seen by pulmonary medicine here , and there is a spirometry that is available for our review that shows only an FEV1 of 1.2 . 
He is a smoker for many years , but has stopped smoking ten months ago , so I do not suspect that his pulmonary function is going to continue to improve with a further period of abstinence . 
Rather , I think that he is quite limited . 
He also has a recent echocardiogram that suggests moderate to severe aortic stenosis , and I think we need to define whether or not it is moderate or severe . 
Certainly , with severe aortic stenosis , he may be an anesthetic risk , and our strategies for obtaining tissue would be significantly impacted by this . 
Therefore , we will solicit a more granular opinion from cardiology regarding the state of his aortic stenosis . We will obtain a full set of PFTs including diffusion capacity and a quantitative ventilation perfusion study . 
We will also have his CT scan reformatted for navigational bronchoscopy so that we can biopsy his primary site , and the intention would be that if he is an appropriate anesthetic risk , we would stage him by getting navigational bronchoscopic biopsies of his primary , and a procedure to assess the AP window and noted that it had an SUV of 8 on a recent PET scan . 
I believe his SUV in the primary lesion is 9 , so it is most likely that he has a non - small cell lung cancer , stage IIIA . 
Given that , and the patient 's comorbidities , it is less likely that he would be a resective candidate . 
We need tissue diagnosis and staging done to appropriately discuss treatment options . 
That would not involve presentation at our Tumor Board , but we will also suggest a concurrent solicitation for an appointment with the lung cancer oncology group at the SCCA , with whom we work very closely . 
Thanks very much for your kind referral . 
We will get all of this testing done , hopefully within the week , and plan for biopsy next week . 
Time spent face to face with the patient was 30 minutes , with all of it spent discussing care coordination . 
Sincerely , 