SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Mr. Smith is a 65-year - old man , former smoker , with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
CURRENT THERAPY None . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY 1 . 
The patient received 2 cycles of full - dose carboplatin and paclitaxel with an AUC of 5 and 175 mg / m(2 ) on January 19 and February 9 , 2012 . 2 . 
Weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel from March 5 , 2012 to April 16 , 2012 in conjunction with radiation therapy . 
His last dose of carboplatin was held due to thrombocytopenia . 
OTHER MEDICAL PROBLEMS 1
. Ex - smoker . 2 . 
Moderate to severe aortic stenosis . 3 . 
Renal dysfunction and insufficiency due to 1 kidney because of history of renal cell carcinoma status post nephrectomy . 
4 . 
Severe COPD . 5 . 
Recurrent small bowel obstruction . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Mr. Smith presents in clinic today for followup . 
He notes that since he was last seen , he has had significant fatigue and worsening of his shortness of breath . 
He states " when I was seen by the other doctor , my oxygen was bad . " 
He does have oxygen at home , which he is using at night and occasionally around the house , but he is not using it when leaving the house as he does not like the appearance of the oxygen tubing on his face . 
He continues to have a cough , which is productive of white sputum . 
He also has some right shoulder pain , which occurs when he is reaching upward . 
He believes this is an old rotator cuff injury , and does not appear to be worsening . 
Otherwise , he has no new symptoms that would suggest disease recurrence . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Other than the items noted above , the complete review of systems is negative . 
He denies fevers , chills , sweats , headaches , vision changes , bleeding , new bony pain , worsening cough , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation . 
MEDICATIONS An updated medications list is available in the ORCA database . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.4 , heart rate 80 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 112/68 . 
Patient 's weight is 108 kg . 
Oxygen saturations on room air were 86% . 
With ambulation , he did desaturate to 75% and with oxygen in place at 3 liters , he was able to maintain 90% saturation . 
GENERAL : This is a well - developed , well - nourished man in no acute distress , breathing comfortably on room air , though with ambulation does get quite short of breath . 
He is accompanied by his wife . 
HEENT : Normocephalic atraumatic . 
Anicteric sclerae , noninjected . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light . 
Oropharynx is moist . 
No evidence of thrush or lesions . 
NECK : Supple . 
No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Bilateral wheezing throughout with decreased breath sounds at the bases . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , peristaltic , nontender , nondistended . 
EXTREMITIES : No swelling or cyanosis . 
NEUROLOGIC : Nonfocal . 
LABORATORY DATA Labs today show blood electrolytes significant for glucose of 178 and creatinine of 1.43 . 
His LD is 143 . 
Liver studies significant for AST of 12 . 
CBC shows white blood cell count 6.52 , hemoglobin 13.7 , hematocrit 41 , and platelets of 163,000 . 
IMAGING CT of the chest from today shows : 1 . 
In comparison with prior CT scan dated June 25 , 2012 , there is a further interval decrease in left upper lobe cavitary nodule measuring 16 by 11 mm , previously 15 x 20 mm . 2 . 
Minimal interval increase in the intermediate nodule in the superior segment of the right lower lobe , measuring 5 x 6 mm , previously 2 x 3 , new indeterminate 2 mm nodule in the right lower lobe . 
There are many indeterminate less than 4 mm pulmonary nodules which are unchanged in size and configuration . 3 . 
New nodule or consolidation in the left upper lobe , may represent either atelectasis or focus of infection . 
4 . 
Lipomatosis hypertrophy of the intra - arterial septum
. IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 65-year - old man with severe comorbidities , including moderately severe aortic stenosis , chronic renal insufficiency due to 1 kidney because of nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma , severe COPD , as well as being an ex - smoker . 
He has stage IIIA squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and he is status post definitive chemoradiotherapy . 
He presents in clinic for followup . 
Unfortunately , he is presenting with worsening shortness of breath and fatigue , and his oxygen saturations have continued to decrease , now satting at 75% on room air with ambulation . 
He does also have circumoral cyanosis when this occurs that is transient . 
He does have oxygen at home , but is reluctant to wear his oxygen during the day . 
In fact , when discussing the importance of using his oxygen when outside of the house , and in fact at all times at this point , he becomes quite teary and is very upset about it . 
Unfortunately , it is likely that he has a component of radiation pneumonitis and we will start him on high - dose steroids , with a taper of 60 mg of prednisone for 3 days followed by 50 , tapering down 10 mg every 3 days until he stops . 
A prescription was given to the patient today for 65 tablets of 10 mg prednisone , as well as Prilosec and nystatin to prevent side effects . 
We have also written new orders for his oxygen , as he was very anxious and would like to have a small portable container if possible . 
I did encourage him that if he is not going to use his oxygen outside of the house , to please use it whenever he is home , and he verbalized understanding and he will try to use it more outside of the house as well . 
I would like to hold his oxygen at 3 liters at the most due to his COPD , and I am trying to avoid hyperinflation of his lungs . 
Again he is very tearful regarding this , but our hope is that with steroids he will have some improvement . 
We will see him back in clinic in 4 to 6 weeks with a CT of the chest without contrast for followup , though should he develop any new or worsening symptoms , he should not hesitate to call the clinic to be seen sooner . 
TIME STATEMENT I spent 30 minutes with the patient , greater than 50% of which was spent in counseling and coordination of care . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM Mr. Douglas Smith is a man with non - small cell lung cancer who was seen today as part of a shared Medical Oncology Clinic visit . 
Please refer to Maggie Kendrick 's note above for further details . 
Mr. Smith received 2 cycles of paclitaxel and carboplatin in January and February 2012 and then had weekly paclitaxel with radiation therapy , March 5 until April 16 . 
Mr. Smith has significant issues with COPD , as well as he has renal insufficiency and he has coronary artery disease , as well as moderate - to - severe aortic stenosis . 
Mr. Smith today was feeling weak , tired and unwell . 
His oxygen saturation was at 86% and , when ambulating , he became cyanotic and desaturated down to the low 80s to mid 70s , and he did look very dyspneic and unwell . 
Even with oxygen at 3 L , he was able only to maintain a 90% saturation . 
Mr. Smith has had some changes on his scan . 
There is some decrease in the left upper lobe lesion , which had decreased in size . 
There is a minimal increase in the superior segment right lower lobe lesion , which was increased slightly from 2 to 3 mm to 5.6 . 
These are all indeterminate . 
Most of these lesions , which were seen in the lung , were quite indeterminate , and there was some slight possible consolidation of the left upper lobe . 
I did show him the scans . 
It did not look overtly convincing that there was new or recurrent or metastatic disease . 
However , he , at this time , is quite hypoxic and , at this time , his oxygen has decreased and , with his history of critical valvular disorder , as well as coronary artery disease , this is certainly not helpful , and I indicated that he is at risk of myocardial infarction , as well as significant harm to his brain and the rest of his body . 
At this time , Mr. Smith became quite upset and became tearful . 
He felt that he did not like the stigmata of wearing oxygen . 
He likes to go golfing and , when he wears oxygen , it makes him not look particularly good . 
He has decided that if he has to wear oxygen , which I did recommend , that he would refuse to leave the house and would become a hermit , and he would never leaves the house again . 
We discussed at length his feelings around the oxygen and he stated that he , if he had known that he would become hypoxic or need oxygen , he never would have agreed to the radiation therapy and was quite angry , and then he proceeded to become quite upset and was tearful . 
I gave him a lot of support and indicated this is obviously a very difficult situation . 
I felt that there may be an element of either radiation pneumonitis or COPD exacerbation , and we would try a taper of prednisone at 60 mg for 3 days , down to 50 by tapering 10 mg every 3 days until he stops , as well as he will have Prilosec and nystatin to prevent side effects . 
If he tapers too quickly and becomes short of breath or hypoxic again , then he would need to slow down the taper and he should call us . 
Furthermore , we would like to follow him up with his CT scan in 4 weeks . 
I offered a lot of support , but Mr. Smith today was quite upset and quite adamant that he did not want to wear oxygen and he was willing to accept the risks and consequences . 
He would be willing to wear it in the house , but not when he leaves the house , and we discussed maybe trying to get a smaller oxygen machine , but he certainly can not handle the fact that he may need to wear oxygen . 
We offered him a lot of support today , and I also indicated this may be temporary as part of a COPD exacerbation , and it is hard to know where we will be at . 
He seems to have the attitude that he would like to , at this time , sooner die than ever wear oxygen and , again , he is competent to make this decision . 
I did try very much for him to consider using the oxygen that he has at home already , as well as checking and using and oximeter , and stressed the benefits of oxygen that would make him feel better . 
He will think this over and he will contact us should anything change and should he become more short of breath . 
I saw and assessed Mr. Smith today in a face - to - face interaction . 
As he was unfortunately somewhat upset , I did offer a lot of support , and I spent 15 minutes with him today reviewing his scan results , discussing his scan results , as well as discussing oxygenation , and the issues and his feelings around oxygenation , and this did take 15 minutes , all of which involved counseling and coordination of care , and was in addition to the time spent by Maggie Kendrick . 