SCCA - OUTPATIENT CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man who is a former smoker with a history of an upper lobe squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
The patient presents for followup . 
CURRENT THERAPY Carboplatin and paclitaxel . 
He is status post 2 cycles . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY None . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Mr. Smith presents in clinic today for followup stating he has been feeling fairly poorly .
He notes that he has significant bone pain and aches after his chemotherapy . 
It was worse after the second cycle than the first .
He was taking glucosamine which he did not find effective for relief of his bone pain . 
He denies any significant nausea and vomiting , but does endorse some fatigue he states this is stable and not significantly worsened . 
Of note , most of our visit today was spent discussing his anticipated chemoradiation therapy . 
He does appear quite anxious regarding this and is wondering if " it is worth it . "
He is concerned about feeling unwell for the next 6 weeks and this is difficult for him to face . 
The patient is quite emotional during the visit today and expresses concerns regarding toxicity of the chemotherapy , the radiation , and the 2 combined , as well as how long it will take to recover after therapy . 
His ECOG performance status is a 1 . 
The patient was seen in the Emergency Department at University of Washington Medical Center on Saturday February 18 for gross hematuria . 
There was no clear sign of any significant abnormality in his lab work and the bleeding was subsequently stopped .
He has had no further bleeding since .
The patient is concerned regarding this however because he has had symptoms of this in the past which resulted in a renal cell carcinoma and nephrectomy in the past . 
Again he has had no further hematuria since Saturday . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Other than as noted above , the complete review of systems is negative . 
He denies fevers , chills , sweats , headaches , vision changes , bleeding , new bony pain , coughing , worsening cough or shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation . 
MEDICATIONS An updated medication list is available in the ORCA database . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.5 , heart rate 84 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 114/74 . 
Patient 's weight is 108.3 kg . 
GENERAL : This is a well - developed , well - nourished man in no acute distress , breathing comfortably on room air . 
HEENT : Head normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Anicteric sclerae , noninjected . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light . 
Oropharynx is moist without evidence of thrush or lesions . 
NECK : Supple . 
No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy noted . 
LUNGS : Decreased in pattern of COPD , though clear to auscultation otherwise . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops . ABDOMEN
: Soft , peristaltic , nontender , nondistended . 
EXTREMITIES : No swelling or cyanosis . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
LABORATORY DATA Labs today show blood electrolytes significant for creatinine of 1.28 . 
His LD is 145 . 
Liver studies entirely within normal limits . 
CBC shows white blood cell count 10.05 , hemoglobin 12.5 , hematocrit 38 , and platelets of 103,000 . 
IMAGING CT of the chest dated February 22 shows when compared with January 27 , 2012 : 1 . 
Continued interval decrease in the size of the left cavitary left upper lobe mass with interval decrease in size of AP window lymphadenopathy . 2 . 
Few pulmonary nodules measuring less than 4 mm stable compared to chest CT from September 13 , 2011 , and remain indeterminate .
No new pulmonary nodules . 3 . Aortic valvular calcifications consistent with known aortic stenosis . 
IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man with a history of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
The patient is scheduled to begin chemoradiation therapy next Friday with Dr. Patel .
He will continue on weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel and we will continue seeing him over at the University of Washington .
He will be receiving daily radiation therapy . 
He does have several concerns regarding his therapy including toxicities and all this was reviewed today . 
The patient was reassured that though this will be likely worsening to his fatigue symptoms , overall toxicities are manageable and the patient was encouraged . 
This was also explained by Dr. Chow and please refer to her addendum for further details . 
We will plan to see the patient back in clinic on March 5 for initiation of carbo / Taxol on a weekly setting with concurrent radiation therapy . 
Should he have any return of his hematuria symptoms he should not hesitate to call the clinic . 
A prescription for ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice a day for 10 days was provided to the patient as he is having some occasional burning and he did have symptoms of a potential infection .
We will treat this as a urinary infection , though again should he have any worsening symptoms he should call the clinic or proceed to the nearest Emergency Department and he verbalized understanding . 
Again , we will see him back in clinic in approximately 12 days ' time for initiation of therapy . 
However , should he develop any new or worsening symptoms , he should not hesitate to call the clinic to be seen sooner . 
This was a shared visit with Dr. Laura Chow . 
TIME STATEMENT I spent 30 minutes with the patient , greater than 50% of which was spent in counseling and coordination of care . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM Mr. Bruce Smith is a very pleasant man with non - small cell lung cancer .
He has stage III disease that was not felt to be surgically resectable due to very poor pulmonary function .
He also has some renal dysfunction , and has a solitary kidney .
He has significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
He has stage III - A squamous cell carcinoma of the left upper lobe and has completed 2 cycles of full - dose carboplatin , AUC of 5 and Taxol at 175 mg / m(2 ) , and has a CT scan for review . 
Mr. Smith was somewhat tired after his chemotherapy .
He had some low - grade nausea .
Otherwise , he does have some ongoing shortness of breath and cough , but these have been very stable .
He has had 2 cycles of therapy which were relatively well - tolerated without any obvious worsening neuropathy .
He did have some achiness and some hiccoughs , but these are very minor .
He did tolerate the treatment well , and had a CT scan in the interim that I spent some time reviewing with him today .
It does show that he has had an excellent response to therapy with diminished size in the left upper lobe lung lesion , previously 3.4 cm and now is 2.5 cm .
The AP window lymph node previously was 2 cm and is now 1.3 , and he seems to have responded very well .
There does not seem to be any new lesions except for in the right kidney where there is a hypodense lesion in the upper pole the right kidney , incompletely seen , but was felt to be likely a cyst . 
Mr. Smith was felt to have an episode of hematuria which caused him great concern .
He still has some slight dysuria for which we have prescribed him ciprofloxacin today .
He is very worried that previously when he had the renal cell carcinoma , he did have hematuria and that is how he presented which led to his nephrectomy , and he is also exceptionally agitated and worried in regards to starting the radiation .
We reviewed his images and I did reassure him that the hypodense lesion was most likely a simple cyst , and that we will continue to monitor this closely .
If he has further hematuria , certainly would do an ultrasound or consider doing urological assessment .
However , at this time , it would be more important to treat the lung cancer .
He understands that the treatment would prolong life and gave him good local control .
We discussed the side effects of esophagitis , but the chemotherapy should be relatively well - tolerated .
I would propose to treat him with Taxol at 50 mg / m(2 ) and carboplatin AUC of 2 weekly .
He should tolerate this much better and not have too much in the way of toxicities .
He is wondering if he can work through this and certainly he can try .
I did caution him that most of the side effects would be tiredness and most of side effects of lung issues in terms of shortness of breath or pneumonias , or other such issues usually occur in terms of post radiation pneumonitis 2 to 3 months afterwards and he should be aware of this .
In terms of the side effects from radiation , he should discuss his anxiety further with Dr. Patel , as this will be a dose - dependent issue .
He agrees to discuss this further with Dr. Patel .
I offered him reassurance .
He has not been taking dexamethasone post chemotherapy as he has had no nausea ; however , I did feel that it would be helpful if he took this 4 mg twice daily the day after chemotherapy , and I would give him dexamethasone 10 mg IV prior to his chemotherapy and maximal antiemetic with Zofran at 8 mg IV prior to his chemotherapy .
He should maintain adequate hydration .
Should he have any major issues with any further hematuria , we will certainly do further investigations , but we will leave this in the back of our mind and certainly look at this if there are any further issues we can address it further but , at this time , if he would like to leave the renal issues if they do not recur and we will deal with this further after he completes his chemoradiation .
I offered a lot of reassurance . 
I spent 15 minutes with Mr. Bruce Smith .
We reviewed his images and we discussed and I offered reassurance .
He will be starting his chemotherapy on March 5 , 2012 .
He will be seen by a physician at the University of Washington Medical Center .
He has been seen and assessed today personally .
I spent 15 minutes with him today .
The majority of my time involved counseling and coordination of care and was in addition to the time spent by Maggie Kendrick . 