OTOLARYNGOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION / CHIEF COMPLAINT Mr Smith is a 64-year - old man referred urgently to our clinic by Dr Dini for evaluation of his hemoptysis . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS Mr Smith reports a 1-week history of hemoptysis and throat clearing . 
His symptoms started last Tuesday when he noticed some streaks of blood in his cough . 
Two days later , he had a large amount of frank blood that was expressed and then since that time , he has been coughing what he describes as pea - sized clot of blood . 
Initially , he thought his symptoms were due to some dental work that he had 2 weeks ago that included a temporary crown for an area after an abscess but after the increase in the volume of blood with no noticeable bleeding from the teeth , he became concerned . 
He saw his primary care physician urgently and was referred to see Otolaryngology as well as Pulmonology , which he is scheduled to see on October 5 . 
He complains of no throat pain , no dysphagia , no bloody noses , no blood in the stool , no throat pain , no chest pain . 
He does note mild increase in shortness of breath since this has come on though he does have shortness of breath at baseline due to his COPD and emphysema . 
He recently had a chest x - ray in April as part of a 6-month screening regimen for his history of renal clear cell carcinoma . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1
. COPD / emphysema . 2 . 
Renal clear cell carcinoma status post left nephrectomy , currently in remission . 3 . 
Cardiomegaly . 4 . 
Hypertension . 
5 . 
BPH . 
6 . 
Status post appendectomy . 7 . Lumbar disk disease . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Combivent 1 - 2 puffs as needed
. 2 . 
Tamsulosin / Avodart 1 tablet daily . 
3 . 
Lisinopril 10 mg daily . 4 . 
Advair 2 puffs daily . 
FAMILY HISTORY 
No family history of throat cancer , lung cancer , or bleeding diathesis . 
SOCIAL HISTORY He works 3 or 4 hours a day at a golf course and is a partially - retired parts manager from Auburn . 
He lives with his wife . 
He has 50 years 1 pack per day smoking history and he decreased his intake to 2 to 3 a week in February . 
He consumes 1 - 2 bottles of beer per week . 
He denies recreational drug use . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS A 15-point review of systems was obtained and was positive only for back pain , shortness of breath , hoarseness , and easy bruising . 
All other systems reviewed were negative unless otherwise described in the HPI . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Blood pressure 114/68 , pulse 68 . 
GENERAL : Well - developed , well - nourished tanned man , in no acute distress . 
EYES : Equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation . 
Extraocular movements intact . 
NEUROLOGIC : Cranial nerves VI , IX , XI , and XII are intact . 
EARS , NOSE , AND THROAT : His nasopharynx is clear to visual inspection . 
His oropharynx is clear with good dentition . 
No lesions . 
No active bleeding is observed in the oropharynx or nasopharynx . 
RESPIRATORY : Lungs with diffuse wheezes bilaterally . 
Breathing comfortably on room air . 
No cyanosis . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
SKIN : No visible rashes or bruises . 
LYMPHATIC : No lymphadenopathy or thyroid masses palpable in the neck . 
PROCEDURE After patient consent and preparation with intranasal lidocaine and Afrin spray , the video laryngoscopy with stroboscopy was performed with close inspection of the left nasal passageway , nasopharynx , bilateral eustachian tube openings , posterior oropharynx , base of tongue , vallecula , piriform sinuses , supraglottic space , glottis , and proximal trachea without any signs of active bleeding or abnormal lesions . 
Vocal fold motion was symmetrical
. Grossly normal vocal cords . 
His mucosal wave was normal in appearance . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Mr Smith 's 1-week history of hemoptysis after laryngoscopy did not appear to be related to a lesion of trace supraglottic lesion or lesion in the nasopharynx or oropharynx and may stem from a pulmonary source , especially given his history of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and smoking history . 
Additionally , there were no clots visible in his throat at this time and he did not cough up any during the examination suggesting that the bleeding may no longer be active at this time . 
Given his high risk for primary lung cancer given his smoking history and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as well as his risk of metastases of clear cell carcinoma to the lungs , we recommended that he be screened with a high - resolution CT at this time and that he keep his appointment with Pulmonology for further evaluation with bronchoscopy . 
We discussed with the patient that if abnormal findings were seen on a CT in the lungs , the information will be forwarded on to his pulmonologist and expedite his appointment if needed . 
UW Medicine physicians mentioned in this note can be reached by calling MedCon at 800 - 326 - 5300 .
This note and other patient records are available online through U - Link .
To enroll , go to uwmedicine.org/u-link or call 206 - 598 - 5693 . 
ATTENDING STATEMENT : I saw and evaluated the patient and agree with Dr. Dorsey 's note .
No source of bleeding in our exam . 