CARDIOLOGY CLINIC INITIAL EVALUATION NOTE REASON FOR CLINIC EVALUATION Follow up aortic stenosis . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS The patient is a 64-year - old gentleman with a history of COPD and emphysema . 
He had a recent admission to University of Washington Medical Center . 
At that time he was admitted because during bronchoscopy , which was performed to evaluate hemoptysis and cavitary lesion , the patient 's oxygen saturation has dropped requiring nasal oxygen . 
During that admission , the patient underwent transthoracic echocardiogram . 
The transthoracic echocardiogram was consistent with moderate - to - severe aortic stenosis . 
The patient 's peak gradient across the aortic valve was 60 mm with a mean gradient of 37 . 
The valve leaflets were heavily calcified and appeared to be congenitally malformed . Bicuspid valve could not be excluded by this transthoracic study . 
Clinically , the patient denies having any cardiac complaints . 
The patient denies having any discomfort in his chest , which is related to exercise . 
Of note , the patient 's exercise capacity is very limited because of his COPD and in general the patient has a very sedentary lifestyle . 
However , walking around 100 yards does not bring on any discomfort in the patient 's chest . 
Emotional stress also does not elicit any discomfort in the chest , shoulders , or lower jaw . 
The patient denies having palpitations . 
The patient does not have orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . 
The patient had 2 presyncopal or syncopal episodes ; however , both of them happened during the coughing spells and are very unlikely to be cardiac . 
SOCIAL HISTORY The patient is married . 
He lives with his wife at home . 
The patient is retired . 
He used to work in the Department of Parks and Recreation . 
The patient still works part time maintaining the golf course . 
The patient used to be a heavy smoker and quit smoking completely after the last admission . 
He has a 50-pack - year history , still smoked 1 to 2 cigarettes per week prior to his recent admission this fall in the University of Washington . 
The patient does not use any drugs , has occasional alcohol . 
FAMILY HISTORY The patient 's mother died from diabetes mellitus complications at the age of 68 . 
The patient has 1 brother who is alive at age 67 and has diabetes mellitus . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY The patient has hemoptysis from early September 2011 . 
He was diagnosed with cavitary lesion , was ruled out for tuberculosis ; however , the final diagnosis is still pending . 
The patient has COPD / emphysema for the last 10 to 15 years . 
Last PFTs were performed in May 2011 and that was at Hospital showed FEV1 of 3.6 , renal cell CA status post nephrectomy 3 years ago , the patient carries a diagnosis of LVH and cardiomegaly , hypertension , BPH , appendectomy , lumbar disk disease , and ruptured disks . 
The patient is disabled secondary to back pain . 
The patient spent some time in the TB sanitorium at the age of 15 . 
Most likely the diagnosis of TB at this point was incorrect since the patient was admitted because of lymphadenopathy . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Significant for shortness of breath , intermittent wheezing . 
The remaining systems were reviewed and negative . 
Please refer to patient 's filled questionnaire in the chart . 
SURGICAL HISTORY The patient had appendix removed 20 years ago , 1 kidney removed 3 years ago , cyst removed from the arm , herniated disks in the back , and neck surgery . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Lisinopril 5 mg orally daily . 2
. Tylenol as needed for pain . 
3 . 
Advair 250/50 one puff twice daily . 
4 . 
Albuterol / Atrovent inhaler every 4 hours as needed for shortness of breath or wheezing . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : The patient is well - developed , obese gentleman . 
VITAL SIGNS : His weight is 235.9 pounds or 107 kg . 
The patient 's heart rate is 78 , blood pressure is 130/76 , temperature is 36.1 , and saturating 90% on room air . 
HEENT : The patient appears comfortable ; however , he is breathing through pursed lips . 
The patient appears to have mild acrocyanosis . 
Pupils are equal and round and reactive to light . 
Extraocular muscles are intact . 
Oral mucosa is moist . 
NECK : The patient does not have elevated jugular venous pressure . 
Carotid pulses are strong and equal bilaterally . 
RESPIRATORY : The patient has diffuse wheezes bilaterally with decreased breath sounds . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : Distant heart sounds . 
S1 and S2 appear normal . 
Systolic ejection murmur can be appreciated , but not radiating to the clavicle . 
ABDOMEN : Bowel sounds are present . 
Soft , nontender , and nondistended . 
No abdominal bruit could be appreciated . 
EXTREMITIES : No clubbing or edema . 
Peripheral pulses are 2 + and equal bilaterally . 
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES The patient 's last labs were obtained in October 2011 , showed sodium of 138 , potassium of 4.0 , chloride 105 , bicarbonate 26 , glucose level of 91 , BUN of 23 , and creatinine of 1.39 . 
At this point , the patient was slightly anemic with hemoglobin of 12.7 and white blood count of 12.47 . 
Echocardiogram performed on October 5 , 2011 showed ejection fraction of 77% . 
Aortic valve velocity was 3.9 , peak gradient of 60 , and mean gradient of 37 . 
No pericardial effusion , no evidence of shunting at the atrial level . 
Pulmonary function tests performed on October 6 , 2011 showed forced vital capacity of 74% , FEV1 of 38% , consistent with severe airflow obstruction . 
EKG performed on October 4 , 2011 shows sinus rhythm , normal axis , low voltage EKG . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN The patient is a 64-year - old gentleman with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and recently diagnosed moderate - to - severe aortic stenosis . 1
. Aortic stenosis . 
At this point , the patient appears to be asymptomatic . 
He does not have angina ; no syncopal events , which could be attributed to his aortic valve condition ; no symptoms of congestive heart failure . 
However , the patient 's aortic stenosis is significant . 
We expect progression of aortic stenosis and possibly this patient might need surgery in the next 2 - 5 years
. We will follow up on this patient and see him in clinic annually . 
The patient will have echocardiogram before the next visit to our clinic . 2 . 
Aortic valve stenosis in this patient might be interpreted as coronary artery disease equivalent . 
The patient is currently on lisinopril 5 mg p.o . daily . 
We will obtain the lipid panel and the patient will be aggressively treated for hyperlipidemia in case his cholesterol level is elevated , although statins are unlikely to slow his aortic stenosis progression . 
The patient was recommended to take 81 mg of aspirin p.o .
daily . 
However , the patient will first talk with his pulmonary physician to make sure that no invasive interventions are planned . 
3 . 
The patient should focus right now on management of his pulmonary condition and especially on getting the final diagnosis regarding the cavitary lesion . 
The patient will return to clinic in 1 year or sooner if necessary . 
Thank you very much for letting us participate in the care of this patient . 
ATTENDING STATEMENT : I saw and evaluated the patient and agree with Dr .
Medvedev 's note . 
Date of Service : 11/16/2011 Today 's Date is : 11/24/2011 