Pulmonary Medicine - Initial Clinic Visit CC : Referred for evaluation of cavitary lung lesion found on CT Chest HPI : Mr. Smith is a 64 yo man with a past medical history of COPD , HTN , BPH and Renal cell carcinoma ( s / p L nephrectomy ) who presents for evaluation following approximately 3 - 4 weeks of hemoptysis .
In the weeks preceding the development of hemoptysis the patient had been feeling relatively well , perhaps with some fatigue , but denies any night sweats , fevers , chills , weight loss , chest pain , or shortness of breath .
Recent medical concerns include treatment for an odontogenic abscess and three separate hospitalization from January - April for idiopathic small bowel obstruction .
Currently the patient continues with his typical " smoker 's cough " and states that he no longer has appreciable blood in his sputum . 
The patient was initially referred to ENT and evaluation with Laryngoscopy and did not find any particular pathology .
They ordered a CT Chest , which demonstrated a LUL cavitary lesion . 
ROS : as above , otherwise negative PMHx : as above Of note - at age 15 the patient was placed in a TB sanatorium in the state of WA following a LUE LN biopsy that was concerning for TB ( per his physician at that time ) .
The pt remained there for some time and received a prolonged course of therapy which he ultimately finished once discharged to home .
He does not recall the names of medications nor does he recall ever having a definitive diagnosis of TB made . 
PSHx : as above , Appendectomy FamHx : NC SocHx : Occasional alcohol , Tobacco @ 1ppd x 50 years , No drugs Lives at home with his wife 3 adult children who are healthy Born in Sough Dakota and moved to WA as a child Active duty in Vietnam No incarceration or homelessness Worked on a farm as an adolescent Allergies : NKDA Medications : Jalyn Lisinopril Combivent Advair Tylenol VS : 129/75 70 36.4 93% RA Gen - A&Ox4 , NAD HEENT - PERRL , EOMI CV - RRR Chest - Mild expiratory wheezing Abd - obese NTND Ext - No c / c / e Skin - No rash , Scar to LUE Neuro - CN II - XII grossly intact Imaging : CXR 4/2011 - No evidence of pneumonia or pulmonary mass ( per outside read ) CT Chest 9/13/2011 - ( read in clinic ) B upper lobe emphysema , LUL cavitary lesion ( 4x3x3 cm ) with a thin wall and some material distributed in a gravity - dependent manner , Scattered mediastinal LAD with the largest node in the subcarinal region .
Subcentimeter nodules in the RLL .
B pleural thickening . 
Radiology report : Impression : 1 .
A 4.1 x 2.8 x 3.3 cm thick - walled cavitary lesion with peripheral nodularity in the left upper lobe .
Possible etiologies include but are not limited to primary cavitary lung cancer such as squamous cell carcinoma or tuberculosis , however less likely . 2 .
Indeterminate right lower lobe pulmonary nodules at the right middle and lower lobes , the largest measures 7 mm .
Possibilities include but not limited to chronic aspiration or bronchial spared of infection . 3 .
Bilateral upper lobe predominant centrilobular and paraseptal emphysema . 
4 .
Unchanged 20 x 10 mm left adrenal nodule with maximum intensity ranging between 25 -35 HU likely benign given its stability over 21 months . 5 .
Lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum and mediastinal lipomatosis Assessment : Mr. Smith is a 64 yo man with a past medical history of COPD , HTN , BPH and Renal cell carcinoma ( s / p L nephrectomy ) who presents for evaluation following approximately 3 - 4 weeks of hemoptysis . 
Given the patient 's clinical history of significant TB exposure ( whether he truly had TB at age 15 can not be determined ) in a TB sanatorium and the current appearance of his LUL lesion ( thin - walled cavity ) , remain very concerned for reactivation pulmonary TB at this time .
The absence of radiographic abnormality in April , in conjunction with the development of blood - streaked sputum and hemoptysis in the past 3 - 4 weeks would suggest a subacute process . 
Though he lacks some of the traditional features of reactivation TB ( night sweats , malaise , weight loss ) it seems most prudent at this time to obtain sputum for AFB x 3 .
Malignancy certainly remains in the differential and if his AFB smears are unrevealing will plan for bronchoscopy with BAL of the LUL next week . 
Plan : 1 .
Sputum for AFB x 3 . 
2 .
If AFB smear negative , proceed with bronchoscopy on 9/30/2011 . 
Will schedule follow - up as indicated by preliminary test results . 
ATTENDING STATEMENT : I saw and evaluated the patient and agree with Dr . Long 's note . 
Additional diagnoses : _ , _ 
By history , it appears at least plausible that teen years admission to Firlands infected patient with mTb , and that current chest lesion represents reactivation disease . 
As a precaution , patient warned about avoiding close contact with others until we can identify whether ( or not ) he is sputum positive . 
If sputum negative , he will get a bronchoscopy , as lung cancer would be the second most likely explanation for his new cavity . 
Date of Service : 09/21/2011 Today 's Date is : 09/26/2011 