RADIATION ONCOLOGY NEW PATIENT CONSULTATION NOTE IDENTIFICATION Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male with a longstanding history of COPD ( FEV1 1.25 L ) , more recently diagnosed with a stage IIIa ( T2aN2M0 ) squamous cell carcinoma of the left upper lobe , status post navigational bronchoscopic biopsy , who presents in consultation for radiation treatment options at the request of Dr. Michael Mulligan . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS Mr. Smith 's history dates back to late August 2011 , when he developed intermittent hemoptysis of approximately 1 teaspoon each time . 
He was evaluated in the ENT Clinic , and after a course of antibiotics did not show any improvement in his symptoms . 
A CT was performed on September 13 , 2011 and revealed bilateral upper lobe predominant centrilobular and paraseptal emphysema with a thick - walled 4.1 x 3.8 x 3.3 cm cavitary lesion with peripheral nodularity in the left upper lobe . 
Additionally , there were noted multiple mediastinal lymph nodes with the largest node measuring 2.6 x 2.1 cm in the subcarinal location and a right hilar lymph node measuring 16 x 11 mm . 
He subsequently underwent a repeat CT of the chest on November 7 , 2011 , which revealed increased wall thickness and nodularity of the cavitary lesion in the left upper lobe with spiculation of the peripheral cavitary wall , increased compared to prior study . 
This was felt to be concerning for neoplasm or malignancy . 
Additionally , there was noted slight increase in the size of the left AP window lymph node , a 3 cm right kidney lesion likely corresponding to the renal cyst , and dense calcifications of the aortic valve . 
He subsequently underwent a PET - CT on November 22 , 2011 , which revealed intense peripheral FDG uptake of the thick - walled cavitary spiculated lesion in the left upper lobe with an SUV max of 9.3 . 
Additionally , the enlarged left aortopulmonary window lymph node station 5 also demonstrated intense FDG uptake with a max SUV of 8.5 , consistent with an N2 lymph node . 
There were also noted small sub cm mediastinal lymph nodes which do not demonstrate any FDG uptake , and they did not appear consistent with metastatic lymph nodes by PET - CT criteria . 
Of note , the AP window lymph node measures 1.8 x 1.7 cm . 
There was no other evidence of metastatic spread , and he was staged as T2a N2 M0 . 
Mr. Smith was initially set up for outpatient bronchoscopy ; however , he had significant desaturations leading to hospitalization . 
Therefore , he was taken to the operating room for a navigational bronchoscopy with biopsy brushings and lavage with Dr. Michel Mulligan on December 20 , 2011 . 
Per the operative note , abundant mucus was cleaned out from the airways and biopsies were performed which revealed inflammatory tissue only , but an FNA from the left upper lobe mass revealed squamous cell carcinoma . 
Based on his new diagnosis of stage IIIA non - small cell lung cancer , he was subsequently referred to Dr. Laura Chow and ourselves for further evaluation and treatment . 
At this time , Mr. Smith notes that overall he is feeling well . 
He does continue to have occasional hemoptysis approximately 1 to 2 times per week , but it is always just small streaks of blood on the tissue and is much less than when he initially presented . 
He also has had some yellowish - greenish sputum associated with this cough , and he was started on levofloxacin by Dr. Chow earlier today . 
He does have shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion at baseline , but he notes that this has been fairly stable for the last 5 years , since he was diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . 
He thinks he may have slightly more shortness of breath than previously . 
He finds that he can walk 3 to 4 blocks if he walks very slowly . 
He does not walk up hills and does not take the stairs typically secondary to back pain . 
He does feel more deconditioned than previously . 
He does note that he has a good appetite and has not had any weight loss . 
He has not had any fevers , chills , or other constitutional symptoms . 
Of note , his most recent PFTs from November 28 , 2011 , reveal an FEV1 of 1.25 , 34% of predicted and a DLCO of 16.3 , which is 47% of predicted . 
Because of his very poor pulmonary function , Dr. Mulligan did not feel that he was a good surgical candidate . 
No other issues . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
COPD diagnosed approximately 10 to 15 years ago . 2 . 
History of renal cell carcinoma status post nephrectomy in 2008 . 
3 . 
LVH and cardiomegaly . 4 . 
Hypertension . 
5 . 
Benign prostatic hyperplasia
. 6 . 
Lumbar disk disease with ruptured disks . 7 . 
Lived in a TB sanitarium at age 15 . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY Appendectomy . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Albuterol ProAir HFA 90 mcg per INH . 
2 . 
Combivent as needed . 3 . 
Dutasteride tamsulosin 1 capsule p.o .
daily . 4 . 
Lisinopril 10 mg daily . 
5 . 
Advair 2 puffs daily . 
ALLERGIES NKDA . 
FAMILY HISTORY 
No family history of malignancy . 
SOCIAL HISTORY Mr. Smith lives in Bonney Lake , Washington with his wife . 
He works mowing lawns of a golf course in his town . 
He previously has a 50 pack year smoking history but is trying to quit and is down to 1 to 2 cigarettes per week . 
He drinks alcohol socially and denies any recreational drug use . 
He has 3 grown children in Tacoma as well as 7 grandchildren . 
He does use 2 L of oxygen on an off since September 2011 . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS A full 14-point review of systems was obtained and reviewed and is positive for night sweats , wheezing , bruising , muscle pain and cramps but is otherwise negative except as noted in HPI above . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : 
Weight 107.1 kg , blood pressure 123/75 , heart rate 78 , oxygen sat 98% on room air , temperature 36.2 . 
GENERAL : Well - appearing Caucasian male , sitting comfortably in exam room . 
Awake , alert and oriented times 3 . 
HEENT : Normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive to light . 
Extraocular movements intact
. Moist mucous membranes . 
NECK : Supple . 
No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : There is no increased work of breathing . 
There are soft breath sounds with mild crackles at the bases . 
No wheezing . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
S1 , S2 . 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops . ABDOMEN : Obese , nondistended . 
EXTREMITIES : Warm , well perfused times 4 . 
No clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . 
NEURO : Cranial nerves II to XII symmetric and intact . 
No focal deficits . 
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES 1 . 
CT of the chest from September 13 , 2011 with results as described in HPI above . 2 . 
CT of the chest , November 7 , 2011 , results described in the HPI above . 
3 . 
PET - CT from November 22 , 2011 , with results as described in the HPI above . 4 . 
VP scan from December 1 , 2011 , revealing pulmonary perfusion imaging showing bilateral upper zones decreased perfusion more prominent on the left and some decreased perfusion in bilateral lower zones with similar ventilation patterns . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN In summary , Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male with longstanding history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , recently diagnosed with T2a N2 , M0 stage IIIa non - small cell lung cancer of the left upper lobe status post biopsy only , not felt to be a good surgical candidate based on his underlying pulmonary function . 
We had a long discussion with Mr. Smith and his wife today regarding the role of radiation therapy and the treatment of medically inoperable stage III non - small cell lung cancer . 
Mr. Smith and his wife did meet with Dr. Laura Chow earlier today , and felt that they had a good understanding of the disease process and its prognosis . 
After discussion between Dr. Patel and Dr. Chow , the decision was made that Mr. Smith would proceed with 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy to be followed by radiation therapy alone versus concurrent chemo radiation if he is able to tolerate combined modality treatment . 
We then discussed the logistics of radiation therapies which take place daily Monday through Friday , over the course of approximately 6 weeks . 
We would plan to treat his involved tumor and mediastinal lymph nodes to approximately 66 Gy . 
The potential side effects of treatment were also discussed , which in the acute setting can include fatigue , involved skin reaction , mildly increased shortness of breath , cough , and esophagitis . 
Long - term side effects of radiation can include skin and soft tissue fibrosis , radiation pneumonitis , pericarditis , esophageal stricture , lung fibrosis and a low risk of radiation - induced secondary malignancy . 
After discussing the risks and benefits of treatment , Mr. Smith is interested in proceeding at this time . 
He will return to our department for a CT simulation after his first cycle of chemotherapy with a plan to start radiation therapy + /-
chemotherapy after his second cycle of chemotherapy . 
We otherwise answered all of Mr. Smith 's and his wife 's excellent questions to the best of our ability , and they were given our contact information if any further questions or concerns should arise . 
Thank you for this very interesting consultation . 
ATTENDING STATEMENT : I saw and evaluated the patient and agree with Dr. Amarnath 's note . 
Date of Service : 1/11/12 Today 's Date is : 01/25/2012 