SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE DATE OF SERVICE January 27 , 2012 . 
IDENTIFICATION Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man , ex - smoker with left upper lobe squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA , here for followup after starting carboplatin / Taxol . 
CURRENT THERAPY Carboplatin and Taxol 10 days after first cycle of therapy . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY None . 
INTERVAL HISTORY The patient comes in today for followup . 
Overall his main issues related to therapy are joint pain to his knees and hips , taking some Vicodin with mild relief , some Tylenol occasionally but has mild relief but still has quite significant issues . 
He had no nausea or vomiting . 
He is quite fatigued and has his usual shortness of breath and no worsening and has no cough . 
He denies any chest pain , any worsening in shortness of breath or abdominal pain and is accompanied by his wife . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Denies fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation . 
No weakness to extremities , headaches , vision changes . 
Positive for joint pain and fatigue . 
He has a performance status of 1 . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Lisinopril . 2
. Advair . 3 . 
Jalyn 1 capsule PO daily .
The patient is not getting Levaquin . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Weight 107.9 kg , blood pressure 128/78 , pulse 84 , temperature 36.8 . 
GENERAL : This is a well - appearing male in no acute distress breathing comfortably on room air , normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive to light . 
Extraocular movements intact . 
Oropharynx is without lesion . 
NECK : Supple without any supraclavicular or cervical lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Decreased in the pattern of COPD . 
He has no crackles or wheezes noted . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
There seems to be a slight murmur over the right sternal border . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , without hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : Without clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
Mental status : Alert and oriented times 3 . 
Mood is normal . 
No palpable lymphadenopathy . 
LABS Electrolytes - Sodium is 137 , potassium 4.5 , creatinine 1.45 which is stable for this patient . 
Magnesium is 1.8 . 
LFTs within normal limits . 
WBC is 14.3 and the patient has had an elevated WBC in the past with a platelet count of 124,000 , and a hematocrit of 41 . IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man , ex - smoker , stage III squamous - cell carcinoma of the lung here for systemic therapy followup . 
He had his therapy 8 days ago . 
Four days ago he started having pain to his hips and knees consistent with Taxol therapy . 
I encouraged him to use his Vicodin as needed and also to try to supplement with L - glutamine 10 mg twice daily for 2 to 3 days to see if this helps his joint pain . 
He has renal insufficiency but has maintained that he is drinking lots of fluids and has maintained his weight . 
He is short of breath , has no cough but his wife feels that he is more short of breath though he did not seem to notice , but he states this has come and gone on a daily basis for a long time and he has not noted any significant change . 
We will see the patient back in approximately 2 weeks for his cycle 2 of Taxol / carboplatin . 
He is getting a CT scan today for baseline and we will review this . 
The patient 's CT is actually done now , as this dictation was done after his appointment and shows mild interval increase in the wall thickness of the left upper lobe mass presumed to be his lung cancer and a minimal interval increase in the AP window lymph node . 
No new sites of metastatic disease are seen . 
He does have aortic valvular calcification and aortic valvular disease . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man with squamous cell carcinoma . 
He will be seeing Dr. Patel after this second cycle of therapy for radiation . 
The patient was asking questions regarding photons as opposed to standard radiation therapy , and I encouraged him to give Dr. Patel a call with these questions and whether he should go to Texas for radiation . 
We will follow him up in 2 weeks ' time for his next planned dose of therapy . 
I will give him a call with the results of his CT 's today . 
He answered all of his questions . 
I encouraged him to come back sooner if he has any issues or problems . 