SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE OUTPATIENT REPORT MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE Mr. Bruce Smith is a very pleasant man with non - small cell lung cancer . 
He has very poor pulmonary reserve and has been diagnosed to be a stage IIIA . 
He is a former smoker and has inoperable squamous cell carcinoma . 
Mr. Smith has a 60 pack - year smoking history and quit 1 year ago . 
He had some hypertension and some benign prostatic hypertrophy but also has a renal cell carcinoma , for which he underwent a left - sided nephrectomy in 2006 and has pre - existing renal dysfunction with a creatinine ranging from 1.6 to 1.8 . 
Mr. Bruce Smith has also had some recurrent small - bowel obstructions in the past . 
Mr. Smith comes in today after completing his chemoradiation . 
He was treated with 2 doses of Taxol and carbo in an effort to minimize the amount of area that was radiated and then went on to have low - dose concurrent Taxol and carboplatin weekly with radiation . 
His last 2 weeks his treatments were held due to thrombocytopenia , and Mr. Smith has overall improved from this and has overall had no complications . 
The last 2 weeks of thrombocytopenia it was held and his last dose he did have one dose of Taxol but no carboplatin and he was given some fluids on April 16 . 
Mr. Smith comes today for his 1-month visit . 
He feels much better . 
His skin redness is now gone . 
His energy and appetite are much better . 
He is eating again . 
His ability to swallow is excellent now , and he no longer has the odynophagia . 
He has no obvious worsening in terms of numbness or tingling , and he feels overall quite fit . 
He has not lost any weight . 
He is gaining back some weight . 
He has not had any hemoptysis . 
He does feel that he is coughing up some whitish sputum . 
There are no signs of any fever or infection . 
He feels that he is more tired and more short of breath in terms of trying to ambulate . 
He can only go up several flights of stairs . 
He is coughing more . 
What is happening is he is using his puffers but they do not seem to be as effective . 
He finds that he is only able to walk up a flight of stairs or walk a block before he gets winded , and this is limiting his activity level , but the rest of him is feeling pretty good and he has had no bleeding or clotting and no other symptoms of note . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS A full review of systems was performed and other than pertinent positives listed above , the rest of the review of systems is negative . 
MEDICATIONS Updated in the ORCA database . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Normal . 
His blood pressure seems to be within normal , and he looks quite fit and well . 
However , I walked him rapidly around the unit , and his saturations range from 90 to 94 beats but he became quite dyspneic . 
He did not desaturate past 90% . 
His heart rate went up to 105 , but he was not symptomatic . 
He recovered quickly and he had no signs of any respiratory distress , but his respiratory effort was slightly increased , and he had some slight accessory muscle use with walking briskly . 
He had increased respiratory effort approximately 22 , which went down to 18 with some rest . 
Mr. Smith has decreased lung sounds bilaterally . 
He has no crackles and no wheezes . 
He does have a significant barrel chest consistent with COPD . 
He has no dorsal spine percussion tenderness . 
HEART : Heart sounds are distant and reveal normal S1 , S2 . 
JVP is not elevated . 
There are no extra heart sounds . 
ABDOMEN : Soft . 
There is no hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : 
He has good peripheral pulses . 
No peripheral edema . 
There is no calf tenderness , redness , or swelling . 
NEUROLOGIC : 
He is alert and oriented times 3 . 
His affect is very pleasant and he has no focal neurological deficits . 
There are no cerebellar signs and Romberg sign is negative . 
Cranial nerve examination is grossly normal . 
HEENT : There are no lesions in the mouth . 
There is no head and neck adenopathy . 
There is no scleral icterus and no injection of the eyes . 
SKIN : There is some slight redness of the skin where he has had the radiation . 
I saw and assessed Mr. Bruce Smith today and spent a considerable amount of time discussing the above issues . 
I did feel he had some slight shortness of breath , which merited at least a chest x - ray today for followup . 
He is not due for any imaging until 3 months post treatment . 
I did feel that we had a long discussion as to whether this shortness of breath he is having active is an exacerbation of his COPD , he may have some inflammation from the radiation or the other effect is the fact that there is a high risk of radiation pneumonitis . 
As he does not have particularly good lungs , we discussed the symptoms of radiation pneumonitis and if he gets more dyspneic , certainly he needs to call us . 
We discussed that usually this starts anywhere from 2 to 3 months after radiation so this would be somewhat early . 
He will need steroids if he does have radiation pneumonitis and will contact us . 
He is also at increased risk of pneumonia . 
If he has any fevers or green sputum , he is to contact me . 
He needs a refill of his Advair and I felt it would be prudent for us to take salmeterol separately and increase his Fluticasone dose to 220 two puffs twice daily , to increase his steroid dose . 
Side effects of the steroids have been well explained to him , and he needs to rinse his mouth to avoid thrush . 
Similarly , with the salmeterol . 
This can cause problems with increased inflammation and he needs to take his salmeterol at all times with the fluticasone , even though we have separated out the inhalers . 
He will continue on his Combivent which we have reviewed and we will renew this . 
His amlodipine he will continue on with and the rest of the medications he will be continuing . 
Mr. Smith is very pleased that he has completed treatment and things look good . 
I will contact him if there are any issues with chest x - ray . 
I plan to see him back in a week 's time to see if his dyspnea is better ; however , if it does improve , then he does not need to come for his appointment , but if it worsens , he is to contact me . 
Otherwise , I would plan to see him back with a chest x - ray in 4 weeks ' time if he does not need his appointment next week . 
I saw and assessed Mr. Smith today in a face - to - face interaction . 
I spent 30 minutes with him . 
The majority of my time involved counseling and coordination of care . 