SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC DATE OF SERVICE March 26 , 2012 . 
IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage III - A. He is a former smoker . 
CURRENT THERAPY Weekly paclitaxel and carboplatin with concurrent radiation therapy . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY Two cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel as induction therapy . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Mr. Smith presents in clinic today for followup . 
He continues to tolerate therapy exceptionally well . 
He has some mild throat pain . 
He was given a prescription for Magic Mouthwash last week , but has not yet filled it as it has not gotten any worse . 
He continues to maintain his weight . 
He has stable shortness of breath and cough , which is not bothersome to him at this time . 
He does have some ongoing fatigue which appears to be cumulative , but he states he is managing it and is still able to get up and do everything he needs to do during the day . 
His ECOG performance status is a 1 . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Other than as noted above , the complete review of systems is negative . 
He denies fevers , chills , sweats , headaches , vision changes , bleeding , new bony pain , worsening cough or shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , or constipation . 
MEDICATIONS An updated medication list in the ORCA database . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Heart rate 68 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 110/70 , weight is 108.7 kilograms . 
GENERAL : This is a well - developed , well - nourished man in no acute distress , breathing comfortably on room air . 
HEENT : Head normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Anicteric sclerae , noninjected . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light . 
Oropharynx is moist . 
No evidence of thrush or lesions . 
NECK : Supple . 
No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy noted . 
LUNGS : Decreased in a pattern of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , otherwise clear to auscultation . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops . ABDOMEN
: Soft , peristaltic , nontender , nondistended . 
EXTREMITIES : No swelling or cyanosis . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
LABORATORY DATA Labs today show blood electrolytes significant for glucose of 189 . 
His LD is 175 . 
Liver studies significant for albumin of 3.4 . 
CBC shows white blood cell count 5.33 , hemoglobin 12 , hematocrit 36 , and platelets of 128,000 . IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage III - A. He is currently undergoing therapy with weekly paclitaxel with concurrent radiation therapy . 
He continues to tolerate therapy exceptionally well and denies having any neuropathies or significant toxicities from therapy . 
He has some ongoing throat pain for which he is not using any medication , as well as some mild fatigue which he is managing with naps during the day
. We will continue with his chemotherapy today and see him back in clinic in one week 's time prior to his next scheduled dose . 
Should he develop any new or worsening symptoms , he should not hesitate to call the clinic to be seen sooner . 
This is a shared visit Dr. Laura Chow . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM Mr. Bruce Smith was seen today prior to a subsequent cycle of Taxol and carboplatin .
He was seen today as part of a shared Medical Oncology Clinic visit with Maggie Kendrick .
Please refer to Maggie Kendrick 's note above for further details .
In short , Mr. Smith is tolerating treatment well except for some fatigue .
He has no neuropathy but he has some slight mucositis .
He has had some hair loss from the previous chemotherapy .
He feels that he is tolerating treatment well with an ECOG performance status of 1 , and has no worsening shortness of breath , no changes in his breathing , and his cough is unchanged .
Overall , his laboratory work looks to be excellent .
He feels that he is tolerating this treatment well except for the fatigue and slight mucositis which he feels it is manageable .
He is maintaining his weight .
Mr. Smith feels comfortable proceeding with the chemotherapy today , and I reviewed his laboratory work which seems adequate to proceed .
His platelet count has slightly decreased to 128,000 , but otherwise is still within the realms of treatment .
Hemoglobin is 12 and white blood cell count is 5.3 .
Liver enzymes are within normal .
Electrolytes are within normal .
Glucose level is slightly elevated at 189 . 
I saw and assessed the patient with Maggie Kendrick today .
The time I spent with the patient was in addition to the time spent by Maggie Kendrick .
Please refer to Maggie Kendrick 's note above for further details . 