SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE CURRENT MEDICAL PROBLEM Patient has recurrent non - small cell lung cancer . 
CURRENT THERAPY None . 
We discussed today the initiation of palliative chemotherapy . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY The patient presented in 2007 , with stage IIIA . 
He was treated with 3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel followed by surgical resection in August 2007 , but he still had positive mediastinal nodes at the time of surgery . 
He then received 2 cycles of cisplatin and pemetrexed which was interrupted due to a picture of pneumonia . 
In September 2008 , a year after stopping his chemotherapy , he developed a poorly differentiated 4.7 cm adenocarcinoma on the left lower lobe and had that removed with a wedge resection . 
OTHER MEDICAL PROBLEMS 1 . 
Arthritis . 2 . 
History of cerebrovascular accident . 
3 . 
Status post carotid endarterectomy . 4 . 
History of high blood pressure for the last 20 years . 
HISTORY OF THIS VISIT Mr. Abston comes to the clinic today after his recent evaluation by Dr. Douglas Wood when he was found to have an enlarged right adrenal gland . 
The patient states that this all came as a surprise to him . 
He remains completely asymptomatic , with a stable respiratory status . 
No new headaches , localized weakness , localized bone pain , abdominal pain , bowel or urinary complaints , or other associated symptomatology . 
The patient had a PET scan which showed that he had a hypermetabolic left hilar lymph node consistent with metastatic disease , a hypermetabolic right adrenal gland consistent with metastasis , and a minimally hypermetabolic right interlobar lymph node consistent with nodal metastasis versus a possible inflammatory reaction . 
Although it was not hypermetabolic , they have raised the possibility of a bladder mass with further evaluation with ultrasound recommended . 
They also showed mildly retained urine in the right renal collecting system concerning for a partial urethral obstruction , a picture of pansinusitis , and mildly enlarged prostate . 
The patient had a biopsy of the right adrenal gland , which was positive for metastatic carcinoma consistent with a lung primary , and this was dated October 12 , 2010 . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION LYMPH NODES : I did not palpate any pathologic lymphadenopathy over the cervical or supraclavicular chain . LUNGS : Breath sounds diffusely decreased in a pattern of COPD . 
HEART : 
With a regular rhythm , S1 , S2
. ABDOMEN : Soft , peristaltic , and nontender , with no visceromegaly or masses . 
EXTREMITIES : 
He had no lower extremity edema . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
LABORATORIES The patient does not have any recent blood work done here at the University of Washington , except for platelet count , PT , and PTT , all done prior to his recent adrenal biopsy . 
IMPRESSION This is a 68-year - old male who presented with stage IIIA non - small cell lung cancer in 2007 . 
He received 3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgical resection with positive mediastinal nodes , followed by 2 cycles of cisplatin and pemetrexed therapy . 
About a year later , he presented with a large lesion in his left lung , suggesting that this could have been in fact a metastatic lesion due to the rapid growth pattern , now in retrospect . 
He now has documented metastatic disease to his adrenal gland and considering the prior now likely recurrence on top of the presence of an enlarged lymph node in the left hilar area , it makes the strategy of primary resection of his adrenal metastasis an unreasonable option for him . 
During my visit with the patient today , lasting for 40 minutes mostly dedicated to counseling , I described that for patients with stage IV , we would propose palliative chemotherapy with the goals of controlling his disease . 
I explained that we would not be able to make his metastatic cancer go away on a permanent basis , and that the goal would be to keep under control for as long as possible so he can continue to have preservation of his quality of life . 
I explained to him that we would give 2 cycles of palliative chemotherapy followed by restaging . 
I am likely to return to a schedule of platinum and pemetrexed , probably in the form of carboplatin and pemetrexed . 
The patient was smoking up to 4 months ago , even after his first recurrence . 
I also explained to the patient today that we have a clinical trial here at the University of Washington that he would qualify for . 
This is a clinical trial using carboplatin and paclitaxel and using PET scan to define evidence of response after 1 cycle of therapy . 
I explained the rationale of the study and the patient took the consent form home with him . 
We will be starting his palliative chemotherapy over the next 7 - 10 days , and we will also obtain an ultrasound of his bladder and urinary tract as per Radiology recommendation . 