SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE DATE OF SERVICE July 11 , 2011 . 
IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Dr. Lang is a 50-year - old female , orthopedic surgeon , with a history of resected stage IA adenocarcinoma of the lung , who is here for followup . 
PREVIOUS TREATMENT HISTORY Left upper lumpectomy of the lung in January 2010 . 
CURRENT TREATMENT None . 
INTERVAL HISTORY 
Since her last visit in April 2011 , she has been doing significantly better . 
She still complains of asthma - like symptoms occasionally , which she attributes to seasonal allergies . 
She endorses occasional wheezing and mild shortness of breath , which require use of albuterol inhaler but not on a daily basis . 
She feels the albuterol inhaler works better than the Advair Diskus inhaler which she took in the past . 
Her voice is almost back to her normal baseline .
She continues to exercise actively .
Even though her exercise endurance is not yet as optimal , but compared to a few months ago , it has significantly improved . 
Recently , she underwent ENT evaluation with laryngobronchoscopic study in April 2011 by Dr. Merati , which revealed moderate subglottic stenosis . 
It was suspected this was the primary reason for her symptoms such as voice change , shortness of breath , as well as noisy breathing . 
She had an MRI brain in May 2011 at Skagit Valley Hospital to evaluate an incidentally found pineal cystic mass on a previous CT scan .
The MRI demonstrates a stable pineal mass that has not changed compared with a study over 18 months ago . 
Chest x - ray this morning showed no evidence of disease . 
ECOG performance status is 1 . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Hypothyroidism . 2 . 
Endometrial cancer , status post a TAH / BSO in 2006 . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY 1
. Rhinoplasty . 2
. Closed reduction of dislocated right hip . 
3 . 
Multiple breast biopsies with benign pathology . 4 . 
Laparoscopic appendectomy . 
5 . 
D&C. 6 . 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy
. 7 . 
Bilateral salpingo - oophorectomy and lymph node dissection in 2006 for endometrial cancer
. 8 . 
Excision of right parotid pleomorphic adenoma . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS A complete review of systems is negative except for the symptoms mentioned above . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Albuterol 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours as needed for wheezing or shortness of breath
. 2 . 
Premarin 0.9 mg PO daily . 3 . 
Vitamin D 2,000 international units PO daily . 
4 . 
Ibuprofen 800 mg , 1 - 3 tablets every 8 hours as needed . 5 . 
Synthroid 125 micrograms PO daily . 
6 . 
Multivitamin 1 tablet daily . 7 . 
MiraLax half a capsule daily . 
ALLERGIES SULFA CAUSES HIVES . 
IV CONTRAST CAUSES HIVES AND LIP SWELLING . 
LATEX CAUSES CONTACT DERMATITIS . 
SHE IS INTOLERANT TO DEMEROL AND DILAUDID WITH EMESIS . 
SOCIAL HISTORY She is a lifelong nonsmoker . 
She works as an orthopedic surgeon . 
She has 2 children at home and her husband is a pediatrician . 
She is going to Europe for a 3-week vacation this Thursday . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.9 , heart rate 72 , respiratory rate 17 , blood pressure 104/60 , weight 75.1 kg . 
GENERAL APPEARANCE : Well - developed , well - nourished woman in no apparent apparently distress , breathing comfortably . 
HEENT : Normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Pupils round , equal , and reactive . 
Sclerae anicteric , not injected . 
Normal oropharynx without erythema or exudate . 
NECK : Supple without supraclavicular or cervical lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
HEART : S1 and S2 , regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , gallops , or rubs . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended without hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : No edema . SKIN : No rashes . 
NEUROLOGY : Grossly intact . 
LABORATORY DATA Sodium 141 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 105 , bicarb 28 , glucose 91 , BUN 11 , creatinine 0.69 , calcium 9.2 . 
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES MRI in May 2011 from an outside hospital per report - Stable pineal cystic mass unchanged compared to the study in January 2010 . 
Chest x - ray on July 11 , 2011 , showed clear lungs without evidence of disease . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Dr. Lang is a 50-year - old woman with stage IA non - small cell lung cancer , status post lumpectomy . 
She is a lifelong nonsmoker . 
EGFR testing was negative for mutation , so she has received no adjuvant chemotherapy . 
She has been followed with a chest x - ray every 3 months since early 2010 and CT annually since then . 
Her last CT scan in December 2010 showed no evidence of disease . 
She has been doing well since her last visit . 
Her voice change and noisy breathing have much improved . 
She still has intermittent shortness of breath with some cough , likely due to seasonal allergies , for which she has been taking albuterol with a good effect . 
Her ENT evaluation has shown moderate subglottic stenosis , which will continue to be monitored , given that she has symptomatically improved . 
At the same time , she will continue to use albuterol as needed for her seasonal allergies . 
We would like to see her at longer intervals from now on given her overall excellent condition . 
We will have her return to clinic in 6 months with a CT scan prior to the visit . 
Again , she will continue to need a chest x - ray with scheduled visits and CT scan yearly to monitor her disease . 
She is advised to notify us with any questions or concerns . 
Also , given the stable appearance of the pineal cystic mass on MRI over the past 18 months , we do not see any indication to repeat MRI brain in the future as long as she has no symptoms . 
ADDENDUM : I saw and evaluated Dr. Lang with Dr. Zhao . 
I agree with his note above . 
In brief , Miss Lang is a 50-year - old woman with resected stage IA adenocarcinoma of the lung , here for follow up . 
Kaarsten is generally doing well . 
Her shortness of breath , continues to improve and she is only using an albuterol inhaler intermittently . 
She did see Dr. Merati in Speech Clinic . 
He could not clearly delineate what her problem was , nor was any specific intervention recommended . 
We did perform an MRI which showed no change in the mass near the pineal gland over an 18-month interval followup and I do not think further followup is needed in the absence of any symptoms . 
PLAN : My plan is to see her back in 6 months with a noncontrast low - dose CT scan to screen for second primary cancers and to do surveillance for her resected cancer . 
Her chest x - ray from today is not concerning for recurrence . 
She will get her routine followup for her colonoscopy and I have encouraged her to get a primary care physician , as well . 
She is going to be taking an extended trip to Europe this summer and will contact me with any questions or concerns . 