SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE CLINIC IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Dr. Lang is a 49-year - old orthopedic surgeon with recently diagnosed stage IA adenocarcinoma of the lung , seen to establish care at the request of Dr. Michael Mulligan . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS Dr. Lang is a 49-year - old woman . 
She has a history of endometrial cancer and underwent a total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo - oophorectomy and lymph node dissection . 
Her stage was FIGO 1 , and she had no further treatment for this cancer after its resection in 2006 . 
Final pathology did not show any active tumors . 
She had a D&C prior to her hysterectomy . 
The patient had some unexplained right upper quadrant pain and underwent an extensive workup for this including colonoscopy revealing tubular adenomas . 
Negative cholecystitis workup . 
There was some concern that she had recurrent endometrial cancer and a PET scan was done . 
This showed a small left upper lobe nodule , which was FDG avid . 
This was followed with serial scanning , and the subsequent scan showed that the lesion had grown slightly and continued to have SUV uptake . 
There was no distant metastatic disease . 
MRI of the brain was performed which showed no evidence of CNS metastasis . 
The patient went on to a left upper lobectomy on January 26 , 2010 , performed by Dr. Mulligan .
This showed papillary adenocarcinoma , well - differentiated . 
Final size of the tumor was 1.2 cm . 
Margins were negative . 
There was no mediastinal lymph node dissection , but three N1 nodes were negative at the time of surgery . 
The patient 's tumor sample has been stained for EGFR and was found to be positive . 
Mutation analysis showed no evidence of an L858R or exon 19 deletion . 
KRAS mutation was negative as well . 
After surgery the patient has had some postsurgical thoracotomy pain . 
She also notes some hoarseness . 
She has recently been seen by an ENT physician , and has been found to have some left - sided vocal cord paralysis . 
Her hoarseness is improving . 
She also was recently hospitalized for a feeling of breathlessness and seroma formation . 
Since that time , she had placement of a pigtail catheter , with drainage of some fluid as well as drainage of the seroma . 
She is currently doing better although it is not clear that this was due to this intervention or time . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Complete review of systems is done in the paper chart . 
This is remarkable for left chest wall pain , felt at her surgical site . 
She rates this as 3/10 , intermittent in nature , described as a dull ache or burning , helped by ibuprofen and Percocet . 
The patient rates her own ECOG performance status as a 1 . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Remarkable for shortness of breath , which is improving . Wheezing . 
Occasional irregular heartbeat , with PVCs . 
History of fatty liver , asthma , hay fever , hypothyroidism , glasses or contact lenses , occasional constipation , seasonal allergies , postoperative weight loss , rash due to tape and incisions . 
The remainder of the complete review of systems is negative . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Hypothyroidism . 2 . 
Endometrial cancer status post TAH / BSO in 2006 . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Rhinoplasty following trauma in 1971 . 2
. Closed reduction of dislocated right hip in 1979 . 
3 . 
Multiple breast biopsies showing benign findings . 4 . Laparoscopic appendectomy in 1997 . 5 . 
D&C in 2006
. 6 . 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo - oophorectomy and lymph node dissection in 2006 . 
7 . 
Excision of right parotid pleomorphic adenoma in 2008 . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Percocet 5/325 mg one at bedtime . 2 . 
Albuterol 2 puffs as needed . 3 . 
Premarin 0.9 mg daily . 4 . 
Colace 250 mg twice daily . 5 . 
Ibuprofen 800 mg every 8 hours as needed . 
6 . 
Levothyroxine 150 micrograms daily . 
ALLERGIES SULFA CAUSES HIVES . 
INTRAVENOUS 
CONTRAST CAUSES HIVES AND LIP SWELLING . 
THE PATIENT IS INTOLERANT OF DEMEROL AND DILAUDID WITH EMESIS . 
SHE ALSO HAS CONTACT DERMATITIS TO LATEX . 
FAMILY HISTORY 
Remarkable for mother with bladder cancer . 
Two paternal half - brothers had cancer of unknown type . 
Maternal grandfather had stomach cancer , another had primary bone cancer . 
SOCIAL HISTORY The patient is accompanied today by her husband . 
She has two children at home , aged 13 and 9 . 
She works as a general orthopedic surgeon . 
She is a lifetime nonsmoker . 
Her husband 's name is Les . 
She does not drink alcohol . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Temperature 36.8 , heart rate 74 , respirations 16 , blood pressure 118/78 , height 169.5 cm , weight 76.6 kg . 
GENERAL : This is a well - developed , well - nourished woman in no apparent distress . 
Breathing comfortably on room air . 
HEENT : Head normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive . 
Sclerae anicteric , noninjected . 
Oropharynx is benign without erythema or exudate . 
NECK : Supple , without supraclavicular or cervical lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , gallops , or rubs . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended , without hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : Without clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . 
SKIN : Shows 2 well - healed surgical scars . 
The chest tube site is healing by secondary intention , is not yet closed but is without signs of infection . 
LABORATORY DATA 
From her recent hospitalization , shows a normal chemistry panels , CBC and liver function tests , with the exception of an albumin of 3.2 . 
EGFR mutations are negative , as described above , as are KRAS mutations . 
PET scan , January 25 , 2010 , shows a hypermetabolic spiculated left upper lobe nodule compatible with known lung cancer , which has increased in size from March 11 , 2009 .
The SUV max is 4.8 . 
Measurements of the tumor are 15 x 14 mm compared to the prior 11 x 10 mm on March 11 , 2009 . ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Dr. Lang is a 49-year - old woman with stage IA adenocarcinoma of the lung . 
Her primary tumor was quite small measuring 1.2 cm . 
Sampled lymph nodes were negative . 
She is a lifetime nonsmoker but does not show evidence of a L858R mutation or an exon 19 deletion . 
I had a long conversation with the patient and her husband regarding her disease .
The likelihood that she is cured is quite good . 
There is no role for adjuvant chemotherapy in stage IA disease .
We do not have any clinical trials that she would be eligible for . 
I explained our surveillance strategy which is based on expert opinion . 
This would involve every 3 month physical examination and history taking , as well as chest x - rays .
CT scan of the chest to be performed yearly . 
She is to contact me should she have any difficulties .
For her postthoracotomy pain , she will continue with her current pain regimen . 
If this is not satisfactory , it can be titrated upward . 
Regarding her hoarseness , my recommendation was to have her wait to see if this resolves . 
If it does not , she could see a voice specialist for consideration of vocal cord medialization or an augmentation procedure . 