I saw and examined this patient with Ms Maria Rahardja in a shared clinic visit , and I agree with her history , findings , and assessment above .
Dr Lang is a 53 yo woman never smoker with complex oncologic history including most recently stage IA lung adenocarcinoma who underwent a LU lobectomy in 2009 .
She is seeing Dr Sylvia Lee in our HNL oncology group for ongoing surveillance .
We are seeing her for evaluation of persistent dyspnea since her lobectomy .
Dr Lang notes that prior to her lobectomy she did not have any exertional dyspnea , but since the surgery , her dyspnea has been notable , particularly with exertion .
She works full time as an orthopedic surgeon and occasionally notices dypsnea with minimal activities .
She was previously on Advair but she reports no benefit from using it ; she does use Albuterol MDI a few times a week which helps the dyspnea briefly .
She also endorses environmental allergies , ie dust , but there is no clear correlation between her dyspnea and the exposure . 
Her exam is remarkable for a well - groomed woman her stated age , with some nasal erythema R > L , slightly coarse expiratory sounds but no frank wheezing , nl CV , GI , and extremity exam .
Review of PFTs in 2010 before and after her lobectomy reveals a pre - existing mild obstructive pattern ( with normal FEV1 but reduced mid - flow rates ) , which is worse after lobectomy with a reduced FEV1 .
Recent CXR as well as review of prior reveal no parenchymal abnormalities , but an elevated left hemidiaphragm . 
My impression is that Dr Lang is due to small airways disease / asthma which predated her lobectomy , but was exacerbated by the surgery and accentuated by diaphragmatic dysfunction .
Unclear if this is related to allergic reactive airways disease , or an underlying inflammatory process such as RA or SLE ; she has no clinical signs or symptoms otherwise referrable to anything systemic .
In any case , it would be reasonable to help her symptomatically by continuing the albuterol prn , addition of a leukotriene inhibitor ( Singulair ) if there is an allergic component to this process , and check an ANA and IgE level .
I did suggest another trial of inhaled corticosteroids in the from of Advair or Qvar but she is reluctant to do so at this time .
We will obtain her relatively recent outside PFTs and see her back in follow - up in 6 - 12 months at her convenience . 
Thank you for allowing us to participate in the care of this patient . 
Time spent on shared clinic visit was 80 minutes including 40 minutes in direct interaction involving counseling and coordination of care . 