SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY NOTE IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Dr. Lang is a 55-year - old woman , orthopedic surgeon , with a history of stage I adenocarcinoma of the left upper lung in 2010 .
She returns for 4-month follow up of an enlarged right axillary node seen on her 5-year surveillance imaging . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY Left upper lobectomy of the lung January 2010 . 
CURRENT TREATMENT None .
Active surveilance . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Dr. Lang has no changes in how she is feeling , other than recovering from a recent bronchitis which required nebulizer treatments .
She has not felt tenderness or a palpable nodule at her right axilla .
No changes in her energy , which is slightly low due to her respiratory symptoms .
She continues to feel stable , intermittent shortness of breath , on exertion , possibly related to hemidiaphragm paralysis , that limits her ability to work long hours .
She continues to take on small cases and work part time as an orthopedic surgeon but she is now having conflict with her group surrounding the overhead charges and not getting enough referrals to break even and having to pay back part of last year 's salary . 
She 's trying to leave the practice and has hired a lawyer .
She is looking into disability options . 
Patient 's ECOG PS remains 1 . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS As described in Interval History .
She denies any new physical complaints . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Hypothyroidism . 2 . 
Endometrial cancer , status post TAH BSO in 2006 . 3 . 
Dyspnea that began right after her left upper lobectomy in January 2010
. Followed by a pulmonologist at Peace Health .
She has had known left hemidiaphragm paralysis . 
4 . 
Abnormal pineal cystic mass on MRI , which was followed and stable for 18 months by Dr. Eaton in 2010 - 2011 and no additional surveillance was felt necessary , in the absence of symptoms . 
5 . 
SVT . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Rhinoplasty . 2 . 
Closed reduction of dislocated right hip . 
3 . 
Multiple breast biopsies with benign pathology . 4 . 
Laparoscopic appendectomy . 
5 . D and C. 6 . 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo - oophorectomy and lymph node dissection in 2006 for endometrial cancer . 7 . 
Excision of right parotid pleomorphic adenoma . 
MEDICATIONS 1 .
cholecalciferol ( Vitamin D3 2000 intl units oral tablet ) Dose : 2,000 units PO Daily 2 .
conjugated estrogens ( Premarin 0.9 mg oral tablet ) Dose : 0.9 mg PO Daily 3 .
levothyroxine ( Synthroid 125 mcg ( 0.125 mg ) oral tablet ) Dose : 125 mcg PO QOther Day alternating with 112 mcg tablets 4 .
levothyroxine ( Synthroid 112 mcg ( 0.112 mg ) oral tablet ) Dose : 112 mcg PO QOther Day alternating with 125 mcg tablets 5 .
multivitamin ( Multiple Vitamins oral tablet ) Dose : 1 tab PO Daily 6 .
tiotropium ( Spiriva 18 mcg inhalation capsule ) Dose : 1 cap Inhalation QAM Inhale a second time after breathing out .
Capsules should NOT be swallowed . 
Capsules should always be stored in the blister and only removed immediately before use in the device . 
7 .
tiotropium ( Spiriva 18 mcg inhalation capsule ) Dose : 1 cap Inhalation Daily Inhale a second time after breathing out .
Capsules should NOT be swallowed . 
Capsules should always be stored in the blister and only removed immediately before use in the device . 
8 .
albuterol CFC free 90 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol Dose : 2 puff(s ) Inhalation BID PRN
. 9 .
ibuprofen ( Motrin IB 200 mg oral tablet ) Dose : 800 mg PO BID PRN for rare pain 10 .
levalbuterol ( Xopenex ) Dose : Clarify dose Nebulized Inh as needed for wheezing 11 .
polyethylene glycol 3350 ( MiraLax oral powder for reconstitution ) Dose : 8.5 g PO Daily PRN for constipation Dissolve in water or juice SOCIAL HISTORY The patient is a lifelong nonsmoker . 
She is an orthopedic surgeon and is working part - time . 
She has 1 teenage daughter at home .
Her son is a freshman in college and she is very proud of how well is doing . 
Her husband is a pediatrician . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITALS : Temperature : 36.8 Pulse : 59 Blood Pressure : 129 / 62 Respirations : 18 Weight : 83.9 kg GENERAL : Alert , well - appearing , well - groomed woman in NAD . 
HEENT : Normocephalic atraumatic head .
EOMI . PERRL .
Oropharynx is clear .
Moist mucus membranes . 
LYMPHATIC : No cervical , supraclavicular , axillary , inguinal adenopathy appreciated .
I did not feel the right axillary node seen on CT and ultrasound . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : Heart regular with normal rate .
No peripheral edema , clubbing or cyanosis . 
PULMONARY : Lungs clear to ausculation bilaterally .
Normal respiratory effort . 
ABDOMEN : Soft .
Nontender , nondistended .
Normoactive bowel tones . 
SKIN : Well perfused .
Warm and dry .
No rashes appreciated . NEUROLOGIC / PSYCHIATRIC : Pleasant and interactive .
Neatly groomed .
Normal eye contact .
Alert and oriented x 4 .
Normal gait . 
RADIOLOGY Right axillary ultrasound , 1/22/16 : Within the right axilla , directly abutting the right axillary vein , there is a morphologically normal lymph node which measures 2.1 x 0.8 cm , corresponding to location of described lymph node 9/2015 and measured in a similar plane .
There is a normal fatty hilum and thin cortex .
No abnormal right axillary adenopathy . 
IMPRESSION : Morphologically normal though slightly prominent right axillary lymph node .
No abnormal axillary adenopathy . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Kaarsten is a 55-year - old woman , never smoker , with stage IA non - small cell lung cancer , EGFR negative , now greater than 6 years status post lobectomy .
Her last CT scan was intended to be her final routine surveillance imaging , however it showed a new enlarged right axillary node in September .
The location does not raise concern for recurrent lung cancer , however since this is new , we arranged for a right axillary ultrasound after a 4-month interval .
This shows the node is stable to slightly smaller , although there is a difference in imaging modality .
We will plan on repeating an ultrasound in 6 months . 
Exertional SOB . 
Dr. Cheng in Pulmonary ran her case by Dr. Josh Benditt , but neither felt they had much to offer for her symptoms .
I shared this with the patient and she was satisfied with this answer . 
Genetic testing .
She underwent genetic testing at Swedish True Family given her history of lung cancer and endometrial cancer as well as her family history of bladder cancer in her mother , osteosarcoma in her maternal great grandfather and another type of stomach cancer in another maternal great grandfather .
She was tested for Lynch syndrome and this was negative . 
Follow up in 6 months with axillary ultrasound , or earlier if any new problems arise . 