ID / CC Primary Diagnosis : Mesothelioma ( ICD9 162.9 ) . 
Extent of Disease : malignant . 
Histology : epithelioid . 
Stage : III A Current Treatment none Previous Treatment Pemetrexed and Cisplatin 2 Cycle(s ) . 
Alimta x 1 cycle Primary surgical treatment : Left sided pleurectomy .. 
Radiation therapy Chest . 
Interval History ECOG Performance Status : 1 . 
Overall pt is doing well .
Major complaint is on - going pain chronic from surgery and long standing bilateral shoulder pain .
This is stable with her oxycodone 10 mg liquid that she takes every 4 - 6 hours She is off fentanyl patch which was not helping her pain .
The patient did not notice any difference after starting the fentanyl patch or after increasing the dose .
Her pain responds well to oxycodone , but the pain relief lasts for about 4 hours and then the pain comes back at the usual 6/10 scale , the best it gets is 1 - 2/10 .
Pain is described more like a soreness to dullness over the left lower ribs , but occasionally she qualifies the pain as shooting pain . 
She also has bilateral shoulder pain attributated to rotator cuff syndromes .
The patient has narcotic - induced constipation , which responds well to Miralax .
She complains of fatigue , but continues to work in an office ~ 30 hours per week , and her fatigue alleviates after a 30-min nap .
Denies respiratory symptoms , nausea , vomiting , drowsiness .
She had a CT of Chest today .
Her spirits have been a bit more down lately .. Shoulder pain in both and back where in insicion starts and in rib cage where it feels there is a hole there .
yersterday she was peeling apples and her back where the incison starts is where the pain is and where the rib is .
And one of the rib feels very painful and gets intense , not sharp more dull intermittent oxycodone takes the pain away where she can function and do her daily activies .
Currently taking 10 mg every 4 - 5 hours Review of Systems PAIN Assessment : Pain Scale : 6 ( 0 none ; 10 worst ) , Descriptive pain scale : Mild pain , Location : chest left not middle , shoulder , upper extremity , Quality : aching , shooting , tearing . 
CONSTITUTIONAL : fatigue . 
ENMT : denies symptoms . 
RESPIRATORY : denies symptoms . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : denies symptoms . 
GASTROINTESTINAL : denies symptoms . 
GENITOURINARY : denies symptoms . 
NEUROLOGIC : denies symptoms . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : joint pain , muscle pain . 
SKIN : denies symptoms . 
ENDOCRINE : denies symptoms . 
ALLERGY / IMMUNOLOGY : denies symptoms . 
PSYCHIATRIC : denies symptoms . 
Confirmed / Supplemented : Patient - completed form was reviewed and supplemented . 
HEMATOLOGIC / LYMPHATIC : denies symptoms . 
Confirmed / Supplemented : Patient - completed form was reviewed and supplemented . 
Problem List Cholecystectomy Gastric bypass operation Hepatitis A HTN - Hypertension 1 ) prior history of hypertension Hyperlipidemia Malignant mesothelioma of pleura Partial or subtotal hysterectomy Radiation Radiation therapy care [ D]Dysphagia 
All Problems Malignant mesothelioma of pleura / 379214013 / Confirmed Gastric bypass operation / 19280011 / Confirmed Cholecystectomy / 51.2 / Confirmed Partial or subtotal hysterectomy / 1492188013 / Confirmed Hepatitis A / Confirmed Radiation / 136191016 / Confirmed [ D]Dysphagia / 317467017 / Confirmed Radiation therapy care / 1479990018 / Confirmed HTN - Hypertension / 2164904016 / Confirmed Hyperlipidemia / 92826017 / Confirmed Diagnoses Monitoring of Cancer Care ( ICD10_CA Z08.7 ) . 
Pain from Metastasis ( SNMCT 459732012 ) . 
Allergies NKA Social History Tobacco use : denies . 
Alcohol use : infrequent . 
Family / Caregiver Names : Son : Jeff . 
Vital Signs Vital Signs Data 11/13/2009 14:31 Temperature - C 36.6 degC Heart Rate 72 bpm Respiratory Rate 16 br / min SBP - Noninvasive 126 mmHg DBP - Noninvasive 70 mmHg Physical Examination CONSTITUTIONAL : well developed , well nourished , no acute distress . . 
Temperature : 36.6 Pulse : 72 Blood Pressure : 126 / 70 Respirations : 16 Height : 163.0 cm Weight : 59.00 kg HEAD / NECK : normocephalic / atraumatic , neck supple / non - tender . 
EYES : PERRL / EOMI , normal sclera . 
ENMT : normal mouth and dentition . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : regular rate and rhythm , no murmur , rub or gallop . 
RESPIRATORY / CHEST : normal respiratory effort . 
GASTROINTESTINAL : normal bowel sounds , abdomen non - tender , abdomen non - distended , no masses / organomegaly , Multiple surgical scars from prior surgeries .. GENITOURINARY : no back / flank tenderness . 
NEUROLOGIC : cranial nerves II - XII intact , strength symmetric and intact , reflexes normal and symmetric , normal sensation and coordination , grossly nonfocal . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : normal gait / stance , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema . 
SKIN : no rash , bruises or ulcers . 
LYMPHATIC : normal cervical nodes , normal supraclavicular nodes . 
PSYCHIATRIC : Alert and Oriented to Person , Place , Time and Situation . Laboratory Studies No Results Found . 
Medications Scheduled Medications cyanocobalamin 100 mcg PO ( Vitamin B12 ) multivitamin 1 tab PO QDay ( Flintstones Multivitamins ) multivitamin with minerals 2 tab Chew QDay ( Viactiv Soft Calcium Chews ) PRN Medications oxycodone 5mg/5ml PO Q4 Hours PRN ( for pain ) ( oxycodone 5 mg/5 mL oral solution ) polyethylene glycol 3350 17 g PO QDay PRN ( * ) ( MiraLax ) This medication list has been reviewed in its ' entirety and all medications reconciled with the SCCA plan of care . 
Assessment / Plan Overall pt is doing well except for having worries about her family members losing their jobs recently .
Her pain remains stable .
Her CT of chest today at least prelim report stated some improvement in her chest . 
We will continue to follow her on clinical grounds and see her again in 2 months , with no labs or imaging . 
This was a shared visit with Dr. Eaton .. 
Signature Krystyna Anna Elizabeth Soltysiak , ARNP , BC Seattle Cancer Care Alliance Thoracic / Head / Neck Clinic Professional Services 25 minutes were spent face - to - face with the patient , with over 50% of time spent in counseling and coordination of care .
Specific information discussed is noted in the body of this report . 