IDENTIFYING INFORMATION / CHIEF COMPLAINT Ms. Williams is a 59 year old female with stage IIa , T2N0M0 invasive ductal breast carcinoma , ER / PR negative , Her2Neu positive in 20 % of cells , status post lumpectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy , presenting for routine 6 month follow - up . 
BREAST CANCER HISTORY T2N0M0 left invasive ductal breast carcinoma , diagnosed 7 / 10 , 2.2 cm , grade III , ER / PR negative , Her2Nu positive in 20 % of cells , status - post lumpectomy and negative SLN biopsy , right reductive mammoplasty , 4 cycles of dose dense epirubicin / cyclophosphamide ( initiated 11 / 11 ) , 8 weeks of taxol / herceptin discontinued early secondary to cardiotoxicity ( 10 % drop in EF from baseline 55 % - > 46 % ) with improvement in cardiac function after herceptin discontinuation ( EF 51 - 55 % 7 / 11 ) . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Ms Williams is doing well today . 
She continues to exercise regularly . 
Her energy level is good . 
She denies back or bone pain , cough or shortness of breath . 
She has no new complaints . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VS : 
Temperature : 36.6 Pulse : 60 Blood Pressure : 120 / 84 Respirations : 16 Height : 162 . 
3cm Weight : 88 . 
4kg GEN - well appearing female in NAD HEENT - no scleral icterus or conjunctival injection , oropharynx without erythema or exudates LYMPH - no submandibular , cervical , supraclavicular , infraclavicular , or axillary LAD BREAST - left breast status post central lumpectomy with reconstruction , right breast status post reduction ; left breast with fibrosis beneath reconstructed nipple , but no discrete mass ; right breast without masses ; no inflammatory skin changes She had a bilateral screening mammogram today that showed no abnormalities . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Ms. Williams is a 59 year old female with stage IIa , T2N0M0 invasive ductal breast carcinoma , ER / PR neg , Her2Nu positive in 20 % of cells , status post lumpectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy including herceptin that had to be discontinued early secondary to cardiotoxicity , presenting for routine 6 month follow - up . 
Ms. Williams is doing well without complaints or symptoms of metastatic disease or post - chemotherapy toxicity . 
She does have some scar tissue in the left breast below the nipple which is consistent with fibrosis . 
Her mammogram today was negative . 
She will return to see me in one year , and will have a bilateral screening mammogram and routine labs at that time . 
