ID / CC 
Primary Diagnosis : 
Non - small cell lung cancer ( ICD9 162.9 , Working , Medical ) . 
Extent of Disease : metastatic . 
Metastatic Disease : adrenal . 
Current Treatment Paclitaxel ( weekly ) Cycle 4 , Day 15 . 
Previous Treatment none Interval History ECOG Performance Status : 1 . 
Mr. Akers reports today that he completed palliative xrt and continues to have intense pain to his right chest wall . 
Currently rating pain as 10 / 10 . 
He did not take his prn vicodin secondary to the patient driving to clinic today . 
No further spells of dizziness since our visit last week . 
He also has SOB and has a difficult time in catching his breath . 
His cough has again improved with the restart of chemotherapy . 
Although continues with occasional cough with visible pink tinged phlegm . 
Activity level has been impacted secondary to his pain . 
Mr Akers also reports being reacquainted with his estranged adopted daughter and is excited that his son is returning from Iraq for 4 months next wek . . 
Review of Systems PAIN Assessment : 
Pain Scale : 10 ( 0 none ; 10 worst ) , Location : back left lower , flank , chest . 
CONSTITUTIONAL : fatigue , weight loss . 
ENMT : denies symptoms . 
EYE : denies symptoms . 
RESPIRATORY : cough productive of small amounts of sputum , the color is blood - tinged , hemoptysis , denies shortness of breath . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : dependent edema , dyspnea on exertion , denies shortness of breath . 
GASTROINTESTINAL : constipation , denies nausea . 
GENITOURINARY : denies symptoms . 
NEUROLOGIC : denies symptoms . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : muscle pain . 
SKIN : denies symptoms . 
ENDOCRINE : denies symptoms . 
ALLERGY / IMMUNOLOGY : denies symptoms . 
HEMATOLOGIC 
/ LYMPHATIC : denies symptoms . 
PSYCHIATRIC : denies symptoms . 
Confirmed / Supplemented : 
Prior note was reviewed and supplemented . 
The review of systems could not be obtained . 
Problem List back surgery CHF - Congestive heart failure IDDM - Insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus knee surgery NSCLC - Non - small cell lung cancer All Problems NSCLC - Non - small cell lung cancer / 379196015 / Confirmed IDDM - Insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus / 494562011 / Confirmed CHF - Congestive heart failure / 493289014 / Confirmed knee surgery / Confirmed back surgery / Confirmed Diagnoses Monitoring of Cancer Care ( ICD10 _ CA Z0 8.7 , Working , Medical ) . 
Allergies lidocaine penicillin cephalosporins Dilaudid Humulin L Latex 
Other Substance - Drug Vital Signs Temperature : 36.4 Pulse : 68 Blood Pressure : 110 / 64 Respirations : 16 Height : 180 cm Weight : 
93.0 0 kg Physical Examination CONSTITUTIONAL : well developed , well nourished , no acute distress . 
HEAD / NECK : normocephalic / atraumatic , neck supple / non - tender , port i m - place in left chest wall - incision site well - healed . 
EYES : PERRL / EOMI , normal sclera . 
ENMT : normal mouth and dentition . 
RESPIRATORY / CHEST : normal percussion / palpation , clear breath sounds , right sided crackle . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : intact pulses , no bruits , edema to legs bilat trace to 1+ , Irregular irregular rhythm . . 
GASTROINTESTINAL : normal bowel sounds , abdomen non - tender , abdomen non - distended , no masses / organomegaly . 
GENITOURINARY : no back / flank tenderness . 
NEUROLOGIC : grossly nonfocal . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : normal gait / stance , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema , Pain to palpation to site right / lateral of lower back . . 
SKIN : no rash , bruises or ulcers , Inspection and / or palpation of skin and subcutaneous tissue : Extremities ( including nails ) : , scab to nasal bridge from BIPAP machine at night . 
LYMPHATIC : normal cervical nodes , normal supraclavicular nodes . 
PSYCHIATRIC : Alert and Oriented to Person , Place , Time and Situation . 
Laboratory Studies 11/20/2009 WBC 4.14 Low RBC 3.49 Low Hb 10.9 Low HCT 32 
Low PLT 190 Neutrophils 2.53 Medications Scheduled Medications aspirin 
81 mg * HOLD * PO QDay 
( Aspir - Low 81 mg oral tablet ) carvedilol 6.25 mg PO BID ( Coreg ) 
cloniDINE 0.1 mg PO BID ( clonidine 0.1 mg oral tablet ) cyanocobalamin 1 cap PO QDay ( Vitamin B12 ) 
darbepoetin alfa 300 mcg Q14 Days ( Aranesp ) docusate 250 mg PO BID ( docusate sodium 250 mg oral capsule ) flax See Instructions : ( 1 cap PO once daily ) 
( Flax Seed Oil ) 
hydrALAZINE 50 mg PO BID ( hydrALAZINE 50 mg oral tablet ) Info - PHARMACY insulin glargine 30 units Subcutaneous QHS ( Lantus Solostar Pen ) insulin regular ( Sliding Scale ) - 1 to 4 units Subcutaneous ( Humulin R ) torsemide 20 mg PO QID ( torsemide 20 mg oral tablet ) 
PRN Medications acetaminophen - hydrocodone 2 tab PO Q4 
Hours PRN ( for pain ) ( Vicodin 500 mg - 5 mg oral tablet ) benzonatate 100 mg PO TID PRN ( cough ) ( Tessalon Perles 100 mg oral capsule ) benzonatate 100 mg PO TID PRN ( for cough ) ( Tessalon Perles ) 
emollients , topical 1 - 2 tab Topical TID PRN ( itch ) 
( Sarna Lotion topical ) 
metoclopramide 1 - 2 tab PO Q6 Hours PRN ( for nausea / vomiting ) ( Reglan 10 mg oral tablet ) ondansetron 8 mg PO Q8 Hours PRN ( for nausea / vomiting ) ( ondansetron 8 mg oral tablet ) sodium polystyrene sulfonate 15 g PO QDay PRN ( - ) 
zolpidem 1 tab PO QHS PRN ( for sleep ) ( Ambien 10 mg oral tablet ) 
This medication list has been reviewed in its ' entirety and all medications reconciled with the SCCA plan of care . 
Assessment / Plan 1 . 
The patient is a 75 - year - old male with a new diagnosis of metastatic non - small - cell lung cancer with metastatic disease to the adrenal glands . 
This is complicated by gross hemoptysis . 
His aspirin has been held at this time , and he is on no other medications that should interfere with his platelets and / or his clotting times . 
He does note blood streaked mucus , however no clots . 
CT of chest revealed that patient responded to chemo after 2 cycles . 
He will continue with cycle 4 day 15 today . 
Will f/u in 2 weeks for restaging CT , labs and assessment and possible infusion of cycle 5 . 
Spoke with patient regarding chemotherapy toxicity vs benefit . 
The patient notes improvement in his cough , however pain has not improved . 
He is also feeling more fatigued and notes mild neuropathy to hands that does not impact his daily activities . 
2 . 
PAIN : 
Completed xrt , however continues with discomfort . 
Vicodin prn . 
3 . 
Elevated glucose . 
Continue to monitor . 
4 . 
NAUSEA : no complaints today , will continue zofran and reglan , add 4 mg dexamethasone to taxol to help with nausea 5 . 
CONSTIPATION : colace 250 mg BID , add Miralax today . 
6 . 
ANEMIA : secondary to CRF , Aranesp 300 mcg for HCT 
< 30 q 2 - 3 weeks . 
Received 2 units of PRBC 2 weeks ago for c/o dizziness and bp 90 / 60 . 
May consider future transfusions if symptomatic . 
7 . 
Bradycardic 
/ hypotensive : 1 / 2 dose of coreg , currently taking 1 / 2 tab daily . 
D/C hydralazine . 
BP normal today , no c/o dizziness . 
Wil continue to monitor . 
Professional Services Copy note to SCCA Partnering ( Referring ) Physicians . 
Signature Robynn M . 
K . 
Takamiya , ARNP SCCA Medicine Department 
