Visit Information Date of Service : 9/29/2014 . 
Type of Visit : Return Visit . 
Referral Source : Palliative Care Study . 
We appreciate the consult request for evaluation and recommendations regarding : Palliative Care . 
General Information APP ( s ) : 
Johnson , PA - C , Peter M . 
CNC ( s ) : 
Hagen , Jennifer C . 
Other Consulting Services : Nutrition : Schmidt , Erin . 
Social Work : Lindsey Penney , MSW . 
PCP ( s ) : Cox , MD , Jacqueline Ann . 
ID / CC Patient is a 27 year old male . 
Consultation Information Reason for Consult : 
Patient 's narrative , Symptom management , Patient / family centered emotional support , Legacy work . 
Participants : Mother : Dianne Pokrivnak . 
Plan Recommendations - I recommend that the primary oncology team : Physical Therapy Referral to help with increasing strength and endurance , and to help relieve fatigue . 
Michael is open to this intervention now . . 
- The Palliative Care service plan of care is to follow up on : When Michael is ready , Palliative care will work with him on Legacy issues , if he is open . 
Disposition Return to Supportive & Palliative Care Clinic : In 1 month ( s ) , As needed . 
Impression Performance Score ECOG Performance Scale : 1 - Strenuous physical activity restricted ; fully ambulatory and able to carry out light work . 
Prognosis Based on today 's visit , my review of patient 's record , and the Palliative Performance Scale ( PPS ) , my best estimation of the patient 's prognosis is uncertain . 
Advance Directives Surrogate Decision Maker 
Legal Next of Kin : 
Name : 
DIANE MATHENY , Relationship to Patient : Mother , 
Phone : ( 907 ) 378 - 2736 . 
Durable Power of Attorney for Health Care : 
Pt and his mom were given the information , but has not completed as of yet . . 
Agent : Chris Pokrivnak . 
Agent : 
Diane Matheny , Phone : 907 - 378 - 2736 . 
Advance Care Planning Living 
Will / Advanced Directive : 
Introduced Date : 8/14/2014 . 
History of Present Illness Transplant Status Transplant Diagnosis AML . 
Date of Transplant : 8/22/2014 . 
Day Post - Transplant : 38 . 
Protocol / Treatment Plan : 739 . 
Transplant Type : allogeneic related , matched peripheral blood stem cell transplant . 
Related Donor Relationship : Male sibling . 
CMV Serology : Donor negative , Recipient negative . 
Preparative Regimen : 
Myeloablative TBI , cyclophosphamide . 
GVHD Prophylaxis : 
Cyclosporine , Methotrexate . 
From ARNP note 9/26/2014 GI GVHD . 
Endoscopy 
( 09 / 12 ) w / moderate GVHD on stomach and mild on rectum and sigmoid . 
- Prednisone 70 mg ( 1 mg/kg/day ) and B & B ( 09 / 13 - ) . 
9 / 23 PDN taper 10 % Q3 days , when resched 40 mg QD taper will be slowed to 10 % Q5 days . - 
Presently only minimal GI sxs . - 
Prophylaxis with Cyclosporine and Methotrexate ( standard days +1 , 3 , 6 , 11 ) . 
Cyclosporine goal 120 - 360 . 
GI : - Nearly resolved nausea from GVHD / chemo toxicity . 
Still taking zofran , ativan and phenergan prn . 
FEN : - Nutritional intake is improving . 
Continue Marinol and daily hydration of 500 cc NS . 
- HypoMg and HypoK : Continue IV repletion . 
HPI / Palliative Care Discussion 
Understanding / Perspective Of Illness : He understands that the cytogenetics of his AML puts him into the ? 
poor ? 
category for prognosis . 
He understands that even with a transplant , he has a 50 / 50 chance of cure . . 
Hopes 
And What Brings Life Meaning Or Purpose : His long term hope is to be cured , go back home and raise his daughter for another 70 years . 
He wants to take his daughter to school on her first day . 
In the short term , he hopes that the transplant process goes smoothly , with minimal mucositis . 
He also hopes that his mom and dad can stay ? 
sane ? 
, i.e. to communicate better with each other . 
: Family . 
Playing baseball ? 
he has played since a young boy , played at Skagit Valley Community College ? 
he feels that being a catcher gave him a great understanding of the complexity of the game . . 
Fears , Concerns , Worries 
: Biggest fear is a chance that he might die . 
He doesn ? 
t want to cause his family grief if he dies . . 
Strengths , Role Of Spirituality , Faith , Religion , Spiritual Assessment : 
He has been to Catholic and other Christian churches , but doesn ? 
t identify with either . 
His girlfriend ? 
s family is Buddhist , and he has been impressed with the quietness of their practice . 
Feels 
he is spiritual , and would like to learn more about meditation ? 
he sees it as a way to ? 
step outside ? 
of his body to a peaceful place . 
His brother sent him information about Reiki energy work , which he is interested in . . 
Communication Preferences : " Shoot straight " with him . . 
Past Experience With Serious Illness / Hospice : 
He has had 3 friends die suddenly : in 2010 a friend died in a car accident ; another friend died at a construction site , a 3 rd friend was shot while working as a state trooper . 
His girlfriend ? 
s father died just 3 weeks before his diagnosis of a massive heart attack ? 
was airlifted to Anchorage . 
He was impressed with her expressions of grief . 
He is currently reading a book called Time on Fire , written by a man who also dealt with cancer as a young man . . 
NOTES : 9 / 29 
: The mucositis he experienced during the transplant process was really difficult , but he was glad to have lived through it , with the help of the hospital staff and his mother 's presence . 
She reports that she was able to survive by taking time for herself for exercise and yoga . 
He was pleased to receive Bioenergy treatments for 20 minutes each almost every day . 
They were helpful in having some time when he could focus on relaxation . . 
Treatment Treatment Summary : Oncology Diagnosis : AML ( acute myeloid leukemia ) ( ICD9 205.00 , Discharge , Medical ) . 
Review of Systems 
Other Symptoms / Scores : 
Nausea / vomiting : he reports that he vomitted last night , after eating too large of a meal . 
He is not always nauseated before he vomits , and takes anti - emetic , usually phenergan after the emesis . 
He is satisfied with the treatment of this symptom , as the frequency is decreasing over time . 
, Fatigue : he reports that he is very tired , having trouble staying awake during the day . 
No other symptoms of fever , pain . 
Sleep : pt reports that he has difficulty often staying asleep , and sometimes difficulty falling asleep . 
He reports that yesterday , he napped for greater than 4 hours , and then had difficulty staying asleep at night . 
He is tapering off prednisone , and does not feel stressed by his wakefulness at night . . 
Diarrhea : he had one episode of diarrhea over the weekend , after eating a fresh salad . . 
Histories 
Social History : Mike has a 17 month old daughter , Aubrey , who lives with him and her mother ( his girlfriend _ 
Alani . 
His mother , Diane will be his primary caregiver , and his father , Jim will be staying in Seattle until end of October . 
He has 2 brothers : Chris , who is 29 will be his donor , Adam , who is 22 is at home in Anchorage , working full time and caring for his parent ’s home and pets . 
, Occupation : Michael last worked as a manager at Play 
It Again Sports and has been in this position for the last four years . 
He has been on an unpaid leave since diagnosis in May 2014 . 
He describes the owner and employees as his family , and they are supportive . 
They have offered him a job when he is able to return to work . 
His mom is a nurse , working for the VA in a cardiovascular clinic . 
His dad works for the US postal service , and maintains vehicles . 
Other issues : They are living at the Allegro on Roosevelt Ave , which is housing for transplant patients . 
They are very pleased with the people who live there and the environment . 
Health Status 
Current Medications : 
1 . amLODIPine 5 mg oral tablet Dose : 5 mg PO Daily 2 . 
beclomethasone in corn oil ( conc 1 mg/mL ) Dose : 1 mL PO QID 3 . 
budesonide 3 mg oral capsule , extended release Dose : 3 mg PO BID 4 . 
citalopram ( CeleXA 20 mg oral tablet ) Dose : 20 mg PO Daily 5 . 
cycloSPORINE modified 100 mg oral capsule Dose : 
See Instructions Take your dose every 12 hours as instructed by provider . 
Current dose : 200 mg every 12 hours . 
6 . 
dronabinol ( Marinol 5 mg oral capsule ) Dose : 5 mg PO BID 7 . 
emollients , topical ( sunscreen SPF - 30 - 50 lotion ) Dose : See Instructions Apply to sun - exposed skin while outdoors . 
8 . 
ergocalciferol 50 , 000 intl units ( 1.25 mg ) oral capsule Dose : 50 , 000 units PO QSunday Continue through 10/19/2014 . 
9 . 
LORazepam 0.5 mg oral tablet Dose : 0.5 - 2 mg PO Q4 Hours PRN nausea or vomiting . 
he is taking 1 tablet in morning before breakfast 10 . 
multivitamin with minerals , no iron Dose : 1 tab PO Daily 11 . 
pantoprazole 40 mg oral delayed release tablet Dose : 40 mg PO Daily 12 . 
posaconazole 100 mg oral delayed release tablet Dose : 300 mg PO Q24 Hours 13 . 
potassium chloride 20 mEq oral tablet , extended release Dose : 40 mEq PO BID 14 . 
predniSONE 20 mg oral tablet Dose : See Instructions Take 70 mg by mouth daily . 15 . 
predniSONE 5 mg oral tablet Dose : 
See Instructions Take 70 mg by mouth daily . 
16 . 
sodium chloride 
( Normal Saline Flush 0.9 % injectable solution ) Dose : 
See instructions 10 mL per Flush . 
Dispense pre - filled syringes . 
Use once daily or as directed . 
17 . 
sodium chloride ( Sodium Chloride 0.9 % intravenous solution Rx ) Dose : 500 mL , with KCL 40 mEq + MagSulfate 72 mEq IV Infusion Daily 150 ml/hr 18 . 
sulfamethoxazole - trimethoprim DS 800 mg - 160 mg oral tablet Dose : 
Clarify dose Take 1 tab PO BID on Mon / Tues only 19 . 
ursodiol 300 mg oral capsule Dose : 600 mg PO BID 20 . 
valACYclovir 500 mg oral tablet Dose : 500 mg PO Q12 Hours 21 . 
heparin flush 100 units / mL intravenous solution Dose : 300 units Line Care Daily PRN flush Dispense pre - filled syringes 22 . 
oxyCODONE 5 mg oral tablet Dose : 5 - 10 mg PO Q3 Hours PRN Pain 23 . 
promethazine 12.5 mg oral tablet Dose : 12.5 mg PO Q8 Hours PRN for nausea / vomiting this is his anti - emetic of choice Allergies ( 4 ) Active Reaction morphine Agitation prochlorperazine restless legs voriconazole Hallucinations , Altered mental statu vancomycin Red man syndrome due to vancomycin . 
Physical Examination Vital Signs / Measurements Vital Signs Data 9/29/2014 9:30 Temperature - C 36.9 degC Heart Rate 75 bpm Respiratory Rate 18 br / min SBP - Noninvasive 145 mmHg High DBP - Noninvasive 
81 mmHg General : Alert and oriented , No acute distress ( He is quiet and fatigued , anxious to get home for lunch and a nap ) . 
Neurologic : Alert , Oriented . 
Cognition and Speech : Oriented , Speech clear and coherent . 
Psychiatric : Cooperative , Appropriate mood & affect . 
Lines and Tubes : 
Double lumen Hickman . 
Review / Management Laboratory Results : 
Reviewed Results : CBC : CBC ( Date Range : 9/22/2014 0:00 - 9/29/2014 14:53 ) . . 
