Discharge 
Summary Admission Date : 1/29/10 , Heme / Onc L , Dr. Keel Discharge Date : 3/27/10 , Heme / Onc L , Dr. Estey Discharge and Secondary Diagnosis ( no abbreviations will be used here ) : Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia Polyarticular Gout Diverticular Perforation Pancytopenia secondary to chemotherapy Neutropenic Fever Coagulase Negative Staphylococcus Line infection Alpha - hemolytic Streptoccus Bacteremia History of Herpes Zoster Hematuria Hearing Loss secondary to Cerumen Impaction Acute kidney injury Consults Requested : Rheumatology Orthopedic Surgery Otolaryngology General Surgery Interventional Radiology Infectious Diseases Nephrology Operations / Surgeries or Procedures : 1/30/10 MUGA 1 . 
Normal regional and global wall motion in the left and right ventricle 
. 2 . 
Normal LVEF measuring 66 to 69 % . 
1/30/10 PICC placement 1/30/10 Flow cytometry of peripheral blood ( pre - treatment ) INTERPRETATION 1 . 
Abnormal myeloid blast population identified ( see comment ) . 2 . 
No abnormal B cell or T cell population identified ( see comment ) . 
COMMENT 
The presence of greater than 20 % abnormal myeloid blasts in the peripheral blood and / or marrow ( 72.7 % of the total white cells ) is diagnostic for acute myeloid leukemia by WHO criteria . 
The blasts have abnormal expression of CD13 ( variable ) , CD15 ( probable low ) , CD33 ( bright ) , CD34 ( absent ) , CD38 ( decreased ) , CD45 ( low ) , CD64 ( low ) , CD123 ( increased ) , and HLA - DR ( low to absent ) with normal expression of CD71 and CD117 without CD3 , CD5 , CD7 , CD8 , CD14 , CD16 , CD19 , CD20 , CD56 , or surface light chains . 
CD2 , CD4 , and CD10 may be expressed at very low levels . 
Consequently , these findings suggest promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) under the WHO classification , although confirmation of the presence of the t ( 15 ; 17 ) by FISH or conventional cytogenetics is recommended . 
Cytogenetic evaluation is recommended to provide additional prognostic information , and morphologic correlation is suggested . 
2/5/10 Left elbow bursa aspriration . 
2/5/10 Left wrist aspiration . 
2/23/10 
Tunnelled catheter placement Uneventful ultrasound and fluoroscopic - guided placement of a right tunneled dual lumen low flow catheter . 
3/5/10 Bone marrow aspiration ( Day 36 s/p induction with ATRA / Idarubicin ) 
Bone marrow 
, aspirate : 
No abnormal myeloid blast population identified ( see comment ) . 
COMMENT There is no immunophenotypic evidence of residual acute myeloid leukemia by flow cytometry . 
Correlation of these findings with morphology is recommended . 
3/12/10 : 
Cystourethroscopy , bilateral ureteral stent placement . 
3/12/10 : 
Exploratory laparotomy , left colectomy , end transverse colostomy with Hartmann 's pouch , abdominal washout . 
by Dr. David Row , General Surgery , UWMC Radiology Studies : 2/27/10 CT abdomen / pelvis 1 . 
Small degree of pneumoperitoneum with pericolic stranding and concentrated pockets of free gas around the sigmoid colon in the setting of colonic diverticula are consistent with perforated diverticulitis . 
No focal fluid collections . 
The remainder of the bowel , including the appendix , is unremarkable . 2 . 
Multiple scattered hepatic hypodensities , the largest measuring 11 mm ( 3 / 40 ) , are indeterminate , but likely represent cysts . 
3 . 
Right 
fat containing Bochdalek hernia . 
4 . 
Right inguinal fat containing hernia . 
3/2/10 CT abdomen / pelvis Abdomen : 
Compared with the 02 - 27 , 2010 scan , there has been interim development of bilateral lower lobe atelectatic change . 
The liver again shows multiple hypodensities , likely cysts . 
Gallbladder and biliary tract appear normal . 
Pancreas , adrenals , kidneys , and spleen are normal . 
Upper gastrointestinal tract are normal . 
Nasogastric tube is in place . 
Pelvis : The pelvis shows left inguinal hernia containing fat and fluid . 
Inflammatory change around the sigmoid colon is again identified associated with free intraperitoneal gas and a developing left paracolonic abscess which extends from the sigmoid colon perforation superiorly along the left paracolic gutter to the level of the splenic flexure . 
It contains gas and fluid and has a contrast enhancing rim . 
Some free fluid is now noted in the lower pelvis . 1 . 
Probable sigmoid colon perforation with developing paracolonic abscess as described above . 2 . 
Free intraperitoneal gas . 
3 . 
Small amount of developing free ascites within the pelvis . 
4 . 
Bilateral lower lobe atelectatic change . 
3/2/10 CT - guided drainage catheter placement times two . 
3/8/10 CT abdomen / pelvis 1 . 
Decrease in size of the left abdominal fluid collection adjacent to the descending colon extending to the splenic flexure with drain in unchanged position . 2 . 
Interval increase in size of the 2 additional perisigmoid fluid rim enhancing collections measuring 3 cm x 3.5 cm and 2.4 cm x 4.7 cm . 
Reason for Admission : ( Please refer to Dr. Azen 's admission note for further details ) 
Mr. Boka is a 53 year old man who presented with three days of gum bleeding , progressing to 3 large cups of bloody output from his mouth a day . 
He presented to his local hospital in Montana , where he was transfused platelets and underwent a bone marrow biopsy , which indicated leukemia . 
He was urgently transfered to the SCCA for definitive therapy . 
Hospital Course , by Problem : Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia ( APL ) . 
On admission , the diagnosis of APL was confirmed by flow cytometry and presence of translocation 15 ; 17 . 
WBC on admission was 1.8 , portending a better prognosis ( WBC < 10 K ) . 
Due to SWOG enrollment difficulties , Mr. Boka was started on consolidation with ATRA with idarubicin , per PETHEMA group LPA 99 regimen , which he began on 1/29/10 . 
He was monitored closely for signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation , which he showed no evidence of . 
He has showed a good response to therapy , as evidence by bone marrow aspiration on 3/5/10 demonstrating morphologic remission . 
The plan is for him to be continued on all - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) : Tretinoin 40 mg PO qAM and 50 mg PO qPM until complete hematologic remission . 
At this time , he will need to have his bowel perforation issues addressed before proceeding with three additional cycles of consolidation therapy ( see below for details ) . 
The current plan is to complete consolidation therapy here at the SCCA . 
Dr. Abkowitz is his SCCA provider . 
Perforated diverticulitis / paracolonic abcesses : 
On 2/27/10 , Mr. Boka noted sudden abdominal pain along with a fever to 39.2 in the setting of recovering blood counts . 
Fever workup included a chest radiograph , which demonstrated free air under the diaphragm . 
This was followed up with a CT abdomen / pelvis and a General Surgery Consult . 
Initial management was conservative with bowel rest and broad spectrum antibiotics ( imipenem and vancomycin ) . 
Repeat imaging on 3/1/10 demonstrated two paracolonic abscesses . 
On 3/2/10 , Interventional Radiology placed two external drains to manage the abscesses . 
Cultures from abscesses grew polymicrobial infection . 
Mr. Boka was taken to the operating room on 3/12/10 for cystourethroscopy , bilateral ureteral stent placement , exploratory laparotomy , left colectomy , end transverse colostomy with Hartmann 's pouch , abdominal washout . 
At the completion of the operation his ureteral stents were removed . 
The overall plan is that following completion of consolidation chemotherapy , his Hartmann 's pouch will be taken down . 
Post - operative Acute Kidney Injury Postoperatively Mr. Boka was tachycardic to the 100 s , hypotensive with SBP in the 80 s , had low UOP , and was febrile to 38.5 . 
he was admitted to the ICU . 
His hct trended down from 26 - - > 19 and his creatinine increased from 0.8 to 1.5 . 
POD 1 his UOP was decreased to ~ 15 cc/hour X 2 hours . 
He was given several boluses and his MIVF rate was increased to 120 for presumed underresuscitation . 
FeNa was 0.4 and renal ultrasound did not show evidence of obstruction . 
Nephrology was consulted and felt the patient 's picture was most consistent with ATN . 
They recommended renally dosing his medications and keeping his I / Os even to slightly positive . 
At discharge , his Cr is continuing to improve , now 2.1 . 
He should minimize nephrotoxins and have this monitored . 
Pancytopenia . 
( secondary to chemotherapy ) . 
Mr. Boka was maintained with transfusional support to keep his hematocrit above 25 % , platelets above 30K / ml . 
A higher threshold was maintained due to prior hematuria and epistaxis . 
He was also maintained on neutropenic precautions during neutropenia . 
At this time , his counts have recovered to the normal range . 
Neutropenic Fever / Alpha - hemolytic Streptoccus Bacteremia ( resolved ) 
Mr. Boka was maintained on vancomycin and imipenem during his period of neutropenia for empiric coverage . 
Coagulase Negative Staphylococcus Line infection PICC line removed , 14 - day course vancomycin to be completed on 3/11/10 Gram Negative Rod Bacteremia Blood cultures follow bowel perforation were positive for gram negative rods and polymicrobia , currently on imipenem for broad spectrum coverage , per Infectious Disease recommendation . 
History of Herpes Zoster Mr. Boka is continued on acyclovir 500 mg IV q12 hrs at this time due to a history of zoster . 
Polyarticular Gout : ( left wrist , left knee , right toe ) : 
Mr. Boka was followed for his gout , and underwent several joint aspirations , which demonstrated uric acid crystals and did not reveal organisms . 
He was initially started on prednisone with good effect , but a taper was instituted following his bowel perforation . 
At this time , he has nearly tapered off steroids . 
He is currently being treated with allopurinol 300 mg PO daily , colcicine 0 . 
6mg PO BID and most recently , with anakinra 100 mg SC daily on an as needed basis , with excellent symptom relief . 
We would not recommend resuming prednisone in the setting of recent bowel perforation . 
Hematuria . 
Mr. Boka was noted to have asymptomatic hematuria following induction chemotherapy , attributed to occult nephrolithiasis from uric acid crystals due to gout flare . 
This resolved and has not required further intervention . 
Hearing Loss secondary to Cerumen Impaction . 
Mr. Boka was seen by the Otolaryngology service for bilateral hearing loss , concerning for chemotherapy toxicity . 
However , symptoms improved significantly following cerumen disimpaction . 
Allergies : NKDA Medications at Discharge : Acyclovir 800 mg tab Dose : 800 mg = 1 tab PO Q8 Hours Allopurinol 300 mg tab Dose : 150 mg = 0.5 tab PO QDay Docusate 100 mg cap Dose : 200 mg = 2 cap PO BID Senna 8 . 
6mg tab Dose : 2 tab PO BID Tretinoin 10 mg cap Dose : 50 mg = 5 cap PO QPM Tretinoin 10 mg cap Dose : 40 mg = 4 cap PO QAM Acetaminophen 650 mg ( 2 x 325 mg ) tab Dose : 650 mg = 2 tab PO Q6 Hours PRN 
Carbamide peroxide 6.5 % OTIC soln 
15 mL Dose : 5 - 10 drop ( s ) 
Each Ear BID PRN Metoclopramide 10 mg tab Dose : 10 mg = 1 tab PO Q6 Hours PRN Oxycodone 5 mg tab Dose : 5 - 15 mg PO Q3 Hours PRN Prochlorperazine 10mg / 2mL inj Dose : 10 mg = 2 mL IV Q6 Hours PRN Promethazine 12 . 
5mg tab Dose : 12.5 - 25 mg PO Q8 Hours PRN Condition : [ _ x ] Good [ _ ] Fair [ _ ] Poor 
Disposition : [ _ x ] Home [ _ ] 
Skilled Nursing Facility Clinical Follow - up , including appointments : 3/31/10 with Justine Derousse and Dr. Ward , where they will help arrange ostomy nurse care In 2 - 3 weeks with SCCA Hematology , if you have not been contacted , please call 206 - 288 - 2161 ( Hematology Coordinators ) 
Therapeutic Recommendations / Instructions : 
1 . Wet to dry gauze to open areas of midline wound , please order wound care teaching so that patient may continue learning wound care 2 . 
No heavy lifting ( > 10 lbs ) or strenuous activity X 6 weeks post - op . 
Okay to shower , no baths . 
No driving while taking narcotics . 
3 . 
See attached instructions for ostomy / wound care 4 . 
Please remove staples on 4/1/10 5 . 
Diet : regular ATTENDING STATEMENT : I saw and evaluated the patient and agree with Dr. Cheng 's note . 
Additional diagnoses : none Date of Service : 
03/27/2010 
Today 's Date is : 03/26/2010 
