SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION 
Jian Yi Sun is a 58 - year - old physician with metastatic colorectal cancer , who is seen for a pre - chemotherapy check . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Jian Yi is receiving treatment with cetuximab and irinotecan , and has been doing reasonably well on it . 
She had her cycle 3 day # 1 on November 8 , 2102 and will have cycle 4 , day # 1 in 2 days on November 22 , 2012 . 
She is here today early because tomorrow is Thanksgiving . 
She wished to have her chemotherapy cycle on schedule on the day after Thanksgiving . 
She has had a very mild facial rash related to her cetuximab and her face is dry , but she had stopped using minocycline because she has not seen a rash . 
She notes that her hair is falling out . 
She is wearing a wig today . 
She feels that her residual hand - foot skin syndrome is improving on her hands . 
She has had no nausea . 
She has had persistent peripheral neuropathy which is functionally limiting related to her prior oxaliplatin , but has not had any falls recently . 
ALLERGIES OXALIPLATIN . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . Aspirin 81 mg a day . 
2 . 
Calcium carbonate 1200 mg a day . 
3 . 
Cholecalciferol 2000 units a day . 
4 . 
Vitamin B 12 1000 micrograms PO daily . 
5 . Dexamethasone as needed with her chemotherapy . 
6 . 
Docusate . 
7 . 
Omega - 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids . 
8 . 
Lorazepam as needed for chemotherapy toxicity . 
9 . 
Ondansetron 8 mg PO every 12 hours as needed for chemotherapy - related nausea . 
10 . 
Prochlorperazine 10 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for chemotherapy - related nausea . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : Jian Yi presents as a well - developed , middle - aged Asian woman in no distress , who is here by herself . 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Reviewed in the medical record . 
Her weight is stable . 
HEENT : 
Her face shows no evidence of a maculopapular rash . 
CHEST : Clear . 
HEART : Heart sounds normal S1 , S2 . 
No murmur , rub , or gallop . 
EXTREMITIES : No edema . 
LABORATORY DATA Labs from today show that her white count is adequate , although I do not have the number because the form has not yet been scanned into ORCA ; however , it has been submitted and should be available in two days for her chemotherapy appointment . 
ASSESSMENT Counts and toxicities are adequate for cycle 4 of irinotecan plus cetuximab . 
She notes that her CEA has gone down to 1.8 , and she is pleased about this . 
She is tolerating this quite a bit better than her FOLFIRI plus Avastin and feels encouraged about this . 
We discussed that after her next visit with CT scan on November 30 , 2012 , I will likely refer her to see Dr. Douglas Wood , as she requested , for discussion of resection of her lung nodule . 
She still is struggling with anxiety , but I think is coping reasonably well with that . 
She does not wish further intervention at this time . 
TIME STATEMENT More than 50 % of this 40 - minute visit was spent in patient education and counseling . 
