SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE CURRENT MEDICAL PROBLEM 
The patient has a history of stage II non - small - cell lung cancer . 
She has an adenocarcinoma and she is a former smoker of approximately 15 pack years , having stopped 20 years ago . 
She is also known to be EGFR mutation negative . 
CURRENT THERAPY 
The patient is going to start today her fourth and last cycle of cisplatin and pemetrexed in the adjuvant setting . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY 
The patient had a right upper lobectomy on August 22 , 2011 . 
OTHER MEDICAL PROBLEMS 
The patient has a history of anxiety . 
HISTORY OF DISEASE Ms. Lim comes to the clinic today in followup of her visit with us a couple days ago , when she decided to put her chemotherapy on hold because she had mixed feelings about receiving a fourth cycle of therapy . 
After discussing with her family , they strongly encouraged her to pursue a fourth cycle of therapy . 
Most of my visit with her today , lasting for 25 minutes , was spent in counseling talking about side effect management as well as the fact that evidently if she is going to be worrying a lot about not receiving the fourth cycle of therapy , it certainly would be better for her to do so . 
We talked about her plans to go to the Chelan area after this chemotherapy . 
I told her that will be fine . 
We reviewed the need to seek medical care in case of fever , and the patient her husband had all their questions answered during the visit today . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
Her temperature is 36.8 , pulse of 72 , respiration 16 , blood pressure 130 / 84 . 
Her weight is 56.6 kg . 
I did not palpate any pathologic lymphadenopathy over the cervical or supraclavicular chain . 
LUNGS : Breath sounds diffusely heard and clear . 
HEART : 
With a regular rhythm , S1 , S2 . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , peristaltic , nontender , with no visceromegaly or masses . 
She had no lower extremity edema . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
We repeat only her electrolytes today as her blood work was adequate for chemotherapy on November 29 and her kidney function remains adequate with a creatinine of 0.8 . 
IMPRESSION 
The patient is going to finish her adjuvant chemotherapy today and she is to come back to see us in mid January with a new baseline CT scan and blood work confirming that she has recovered from chemotherapy toxicities . 
