SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE OUTPATIENT REPORT MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE 
This is a shared Medical Oncology Clinic note with Dr. Renato Martins . 
CURRENT MEDICAL PROBLEM 
The patient has recurrent non - small cell lung cancer in the AP window . 
CURRENT THERAPY 
The patient is on to start Taxol and started radiation 6 days ago . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY 
The patient received neoadjuvant chemotherapy , cisplatin - based therapy and pemetrexed , followed by surgery in October of 2008 . 
OTHER MEDICAL PROBLEMS 
The patient has severe depression , started on Celexa , is on 20 mg currently . 
INTERIM HISTORY Mr. Klujber comes into clinic to start chemotherapy with concurrent radiation . 
He started his radiation 6 days ago . 
This is to local recurrence , has no sites of metastatic disease per PET , and will be getting concurrent chemoradiation . 
Overall he is tolerating the radiation fairly well , and has basic questions regarding chemotherapy toxicities and side effects today . 
He is anxious and states he feels a little bit of improvement from his Celexa medications for his depression , but upped the dose approximately 1 week ago , is waiting for improved benefit at this time . 
He also has noted an increase in shortness of breath over the last month , which has been quite significant over the last couple of weeks . 
He denies any headaches , mouth sores , weakness to extremities , nausea or vomiting , no fevers or chills . 
He has had a 10 pound weight loss , he states 15 pounds , in the last year since last May , but he states in the last 5 weeks he has had a 10 pound weight loss . 
He denies any night sweats and his appetite is good . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS 1 . 
The patient is on citalopram 20 mg a day . 2 . 
Hydroxyzine 25 mg every 6 hours as needed for anxiety . 
3 . 
Lisinopril 10 mg 1 PO daily at bedtime . 
4 . Ambien as needed . 
5 . 
New medications today - he was written for Zofran and Reglan as needed . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : 
The patient 's weight today is 212 pounds . 
Blood pressure 120 / 73 , heart rate 99 , temperature 36.3 . 
GENERAL : 
This is a well - developed , well - nourished man in no apparent distress . 
He is anxious and is accompanied by his wife . 
HEENT : 
Oral cavity is clear . 
Pupils are equal , round , reactive to light . 
Extraocular movements intact . 
NECK : Supple without any supraclavicular or cervical lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : He has decreased breath sounds on the left base , otherwise clear . 
HEART : 
Regular rate and rhythm . 
No rubs , murmurs , gallops . 
ABDOMEN : 
Soft , nontender , without any hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : 
Without edema . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
LABS Glucose is elevated at 148 today , creatinine 1.2 and his potassium is 5.0 . 
He is on lisinopril . 
LFTs are within normal limits . 
CBC is 11.2 , hematocrit 45 , platelets 245 , neutrophils are 9.0 . 
IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Klujber is a 73 - year - old gentleman with recurrence of his disease to the AP window , is getting concurrent chemo with radiation . 
Radiation started approximately 6 days ago . 
We will give weekly paclitaxel 60 mg / m ( 2 ) on a weekly basis , get counts , and will be seen and evaluated on a weekly basis . 
We reviewed all the toxicity side effects related to Taxol , mainly hypersensitivity reaction , nausea , vomiting , neuropathies , dropping counts , risk for fevers , hair loss . 
He has a good understanding of all this and wants to proceed with therapy today . 
I spent 25 minutes with this patient , with greater than 50 % of the time in counseling and coordination of care . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM : 
This is an addendum of the note dictated by Leslie Anderson , physician assistant . 
This is to document that I saw the patient with her today . 
I did evaluate Mr. Klujber and examine him , and the plan outlined in her note is a consequence of our discussion of this patient 's case . 
In brief , Mr. Klujber comes to clinic today to start his weekly paclitaxel in combination with radiation for local recurrence of his non - small - cell lung cancer . 
I had day a 15 - minutes visit of direct face - to - face contact with the patient and his wife , most of it involving counseling and reviewing images from the patient 's most recent CT scans . 
I explained to him that the right - side pulmonary nodule remains of unclear etiology , that at this point we will only follow that abnormality and concentrate treatment on the lymph node recurrence on the left side . 
I reviewed the side effects of chemotherapy with special emphasis on peripheral neuropathy , risk of an allergic reaction , and the patient and that his wife had all their questions answered during the visit . 
