SCCA MEDICAL ONCOLOGY DATE OF SERVICE : 12/04/2012 . 
IDENTIFICATION Roberto is a 54 - year - old Filipino gentleman with Stage IV non small cell lung cancer with metastatic disease to the bones with a left upper lobe mass with an SUV of 19.7 . 
He is here to be consented for blood transfusion . 
For full detail of History and Physical , please see Laura Q . 
M . 
Chow , MD 's Note from December 3 , 2012 . 
INTERVAL HISTORY 
The patient comes in today . 
He was seen by Dr. Michael Mulligan who has since sent him to Dr. Chow with Stage IV disease . 
He was seen by her yesterday and was found to have a hematocrit of 21 
so he was typed and crossed this morning and will to be transfused with three units of blood this afternoon over at the University of Washington Medical Center . 
All of these details were explained to the patient . 
We reviewed at length toxicities related to blood transfusion with fever , chills , rash , the risk of HIV , and hepatitis C , and anaphylactic type reaction with shortness of breath . 
These symptoms are uncommon and this was explained to him that if he should feel anything that is unusual he should alert the nurse 's right away with his transfusions . 
Otherwise , he is fairly healthy gentleman , was not on any previous medications , did not had any other significant comorbidities . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS 
He denies any fevers or chills . 
No nausea . 
He had hemoptysis times one , has not had any further hemoptysis . 
He has a cough with some shortness of breath , not having any significant pain , not requiring anything for pain . 
He was started on allopurinol and Benadryl for his itching that he is having to his skin . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Oral cavity is clear . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light . 
NECK : Supple , without any palpable lymphadenopathy of his cervical and supraclavicular area . 
LUNGS : Clear . 
He has some decreased breath sounds in the left middle lobe and has good aeration all other places . 
ABDOMEN : 
Soft , nontender . 
EXTREMITIES : 
Without edema . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Roberto is a 54 - year - old gentleman with Stage IV non - small - cell lung cancer here to have a type and cross and to have a Consent for blood . 
We reviewed all the issues related to blood and the patient signed Consent prior to receiving any blood products . 
This was faxed over to 8 Southeast as this is where he will receive it and the blood orders have been written . 
He will be getting chemotherapy on Friday of this week starting with carboplatin 
/ Taxol and I have written him the premedications which we give . 
I have given him some Zofran as needed to be used three days after his therapy , dexamethasone 2 tablets times three days after his therapy , Reglan and Ativan as needed ; these prescriptions were written today . 
I have also given him the handouts for carboplatin and paclitaxel so that they can read up on the side effects and the toxicities to the therapy well and they will pick up their medications at the University today , premedications . 
I answered all the rest of his family 's questions and his . 
We will follow up with him on Friday to start chemotherapy . 
Consent was faxed over to 8 Southeast . 
TIME STATEMENT I spent 25 minutes with this patient reviewing chemotherapy toxicity / side effects , blood transfusion reaction , and setting up his medications prior to his chemotherapy . 
