SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE SARCOMA CLINIC NOTE DATE OF SERVICE 5/14/2013 INTERVAL HISTORY 
She attends clinic with her husband . 
Ms. Schmitt has recovered reasonably well from her surgery . 
I reviewed with her again the results of her pathology . 
She is very pleased with the results and is eager to be participating in physical therapy and to get back to work . 
I reminded her that we do view her as having responded to chemotherapy , despite the difficultues . 
I discussed with her and her husband our ongoing recommendation that she complete her treatment with at least 2 more rounds of chemotherapy to optimize systemic control . 
I reminded her that surgery and radiation are largely for local control but do not prevent return of disease in her lungs . 
Unfortuantely at this time her and her husband are not interested in further chemotherapy . 
She expressed to me her belief that her disease is cured and does not require further treatment . 
I therefore encouraged them to think about it more at home and get back to us if they changed their mind , ideally beginning chemotherapy in the next 0 - 4 weeks . 
Also I reminded them that she will need surveillance Q3 months for the first 2 years and that I would participate in that process for chemotherapy toxicity . 
I also recommended maintaining the port or another 3 - 6 months . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS 
A complete review of systems was conducted but was negative in detail except as documented above ONCOLOGIC CHRONOLOGY Fall 2012 Worsening pain at the back of the leg . 
Mass initially thought to be a hematoma 11 / 2 Excisional biopsy , pathology consistent with a pleomorphic sarcoma NOS 12 / 4 MUGA with EF 60 % Cycle 1 : AIM chemotherapy 12 / 19 Hemorrhage into the tumor 12 / 16 Cycle 2 : AIM Ankle fracture 1/15/2013 Scans with increased size but likely response to chemotherapy Patient elects to go on to radiation 4 / 12 Surgical resection with no viable tumor on pathology PAST MEDICALAND SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Cervical cancer . 
2 . Hysterectomy . 
3 . Depression . 
4 . 
Tonsillectomy and appendectomy . 
5 . 
SPARC sling procedure . 
6 . Depression . 
7 . 
Hypercholesterolemia . 
MEDICATIONS Sertraline . 
Simvastatin Ativan 
0.5 mg prn anxiety Ondansetron 8 mg prn nausea Metoclopramide 10 mg prn nausea Oxycodone 5 - 10 mg orally Q6 hrs prn pain Oxycontin 10 mg orally Q8hrs ALLERGIES 1 . 
COMPAZINE . 
2 . 
SULFA DRUGS . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
VITAL SIGNS : 
These are in the electronic record . 
They were reviewed and were within normal limits aside from her pain score . 
GENERAL : The patient appears in no acute distress . 
HEENT : Sclerae anicteric . 
Mucous membranes moist . 
CHEST : Her port was in good condition . 
EXTREMITIES : 
Scar on the left leg extends from the buttock beyond the knee . 
Appears to be healing well with just a seroma behind the knee . 
No significant redness , discharge , swelling , bruising or bleeding . 
No signs of clot . 
NEURO : CN are grossly intact , alert , oriented PSYCH : Affect is pleasant . 
STUDIES Reviewed pathology report which is as above . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN 
This is a 57 - year - old female with high grade pleomorphic sarcoma of the left thigh who is status post 2 cycles chemotherapy , radiation , and surgical resection , now considering adjuvant chemotherapy . 
Sarcoma . 
She will consider 2 - 4 more rounds of chemotherapy although at this time it seems highly unlikely she will agree to that . 
If she elects to go into surveillance she will need followup scanning Q3 months for the next 2 years and should maintain her port for 3 - 6 months Pain . 
Resonably well controlled . 
Port function . 
She will have ongoing port flushes every 4 to 6 weeks closer to home . 
Greater than 50 % of this 30 minute visit was spent in face - to - face counseling and coordination of care as described in the note above . 
