SCCA MEDICAL ONCOLOGY NOTE DATE OF SERVICE September 13 , 2013 ATTENDING PHYSICIAN William Proctor Harris , MD IDENTIFICATION Mr. Floyd is a very pleasant 57 - year - old gentleman with metastatic colorectal cancer , seen here in follow - up . 
CURRENT THERAPY 
The patient is taking a treatment break after an initial robust response to FOLFIRI plus Avastin , last administered on July 1 , 2013 . 
INTERIM HISTORY Elson notes that he is feeling quite well , having taken a break from chemotherapy . 
He opted to do this based on quality of life issues , wishing to take a break from chemotherapy toxicity while he decided on the pros and cons of continuation . 
Elson has been struggling with the decision as to whether he wishes to continue on chemotherapy with associated moderate side effects versus discontinuation with the understanding that his survival would be shortened with this approach . 
He returns today for further discussion . 
He has had restaging scans performed . 
He notes that he has some very minimal increased fullness of one of his anterior abdominal wall metastases in the left lower quadrant at a port site . 
Otherwise , no change in symptoms , no significant pain with the exception of some mild low back pain , without significant neurologic symptoms . 
Appetite is excellent . 
ECOG performance status is currently 0 . 
ALLERGIES DELAYED CONTRAST REACTION TO IODINATED CONTRAST DYE , THE PATIENT REQUIRES PREMEDICATION PRIOR TO CT SCANS . 
NO OTHER KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Amlodipine currently on hold , with good blood pressure control off of Avastin . 
2 . Aspirin 81 mg PO daily . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature is 37.1 , pulse 78 , blood pressure 132 / 90 , respiratory rate 18 , pain 0 / 10 , weight 111 kilos . 
GENERAL : Pleasant male in no distress . 
HEENT : No scleral icterus . 
Oropharynx is clear . 
NECK : Supple . 
No lymphadenopathy . 
CARDIAC : Regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , gallops or rubs . 
LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
No wheezes or rales . 
ABDOMEN : 
Soft . 
There is some minimal fullness in the right lower quadrant and above the umbilicus in the setting of known disease . 
These are generally stable from prior exams . 
No other significant palpable masses appreciated . 
EXTREMITIES : 
Warm and well - perfused , 2+ pulses . 
No edema . 
DERMATOLOGIC : 
Resolution of previously noted hyperpigmentation of the extremities . 
NEUROLOGIC : Nonfocal exam . 
LABORATORY DATA Labs from September 12 , 2013 , show a chem - 7 with a creatinine of 1.18 , otherwise chem - 7 is normal . 
Hepatic function panel is within normal limits . 
CBC with white blood cell count of 3.9 , hematocrit 46 % , platelet count 176 , 000 , normal differential . 
Neutrophil count is 2260 . 
CEA is normal at 2.1 , CA - 125 is less than 5 . 
IMAGING CT of chest , abdomen , and pelvis on September 12 , 2013 , is compared with prior scan from June 30 , 2013 . 
Overall , this shows a newly recognized eccentric soft tissue density , measuring 25 x 13 mm , within the colon , at the anastomotic site in the left lower quadrant , not appreciated on prior study , stable to decreased size of multiple intra - abdominal and abdominal wall lesions , interval decrease in size and density of metastatic hepatic lesions . 
The patient has a 4 mm right midlobe lung nodule , new or perhaps more prominent , indeterminate . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Mr. Floyd is a very pleasant 57 - year - old gentleman with metastatic colorectal cancer and relatively widespread disease in the anterior abdominal wall at the anastomotic site , liver and peritoneal cavity . 
He clinically is doing very well , with an ECOG performance status of 0 and , although he has perhaps some progression at the anastomotic site , he is asymptomatic from this and has essentially stable to minimally decreased disease at his other known sites of disease . 
He has overall had a biochemical response , and an exceptional initial response to FOLFIRI plus Avastin , with perhaps some focal minimal progression on this recent scan , most notably at the anastomotic site . 
However , his response to chemotherapy essentially persists despite a 2.5 - month treatment break . 
We had a discussion today about the pros and cons of continuation of chemotherapy . 
Mr. Floyd had been leaning toward stopping chemotherapy altogether . 
We discussed the results of the scans , and the likely progression at the anastomotic site . 
We also talked about strategies to minimize toxicity and impact on his quality of life . 
Elson wishes to consider chemotherapy that would be similar but perhaps not quite as toxic , to attempt to prolong survival , while allowing him to continue work , and hopefully minimizing some of the hand / foot syndrome , alopecia and fatigue associated with his every - two - week regimen . 
My recommendation to him , based upon his wishes , was to continue with FOLFIRI plus Avastin every three weeks . 
We could dose the Avastin on a three - week schedule , and continue with his prior dose of FOLFIRI . 
I would reinstitute XGEVA as well , given his mild low back pain and known bony metastases . 
Overall , Mr. Floyd was happy with the results of the scans and , after our discussion , has decided to attempt every - three - week FOLFIRI , Avastin , and see how things go in terms of toxicity . 
We can adjust further , and I discussed the possibility of moving to fluoropyrimidine , Avastin alone , should toxicity still be more than he is willing to accept . 
Mr. Floyd has an excellent understanding of the pros and cons of chemotherapy per our prior discussions , and wishes to proceed at this point . 
Down the road , we could consider getting his tumor typed for immunotherapeutic target , in anticipation of future clinical trial interventions , but Mr. Floyd wishes to defer any discussion of that today , and to talk about this down the road . 
I will plan on restaging in three months . 
The patient will need premedications due to a delayed contrast reaction in the past . 
This should include prednisone and Benadryl prior to CT scans . 
