UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON INTERNAL MEDICINE INPATIENT CONSULT : REFERRING MD : Dr. Sinanan PRIMARY MEDICAL DOCTORS : Thomas Henry Gallagher , MD Dr. Barry Levenson CHIEF COMPLAINT : Peristomal hernia . 
HISTORY OF PRESENTING ILLNESS : Dr. Sinanan has kindly requested inpatient internal medicine consultation for advice regarding DVT and other medical problems . 
In summary , this is an unfortunate 72 - year - old woman who had a colonic intussusception in 1997 , requiring partial colon resection , in 1999 , she was diagnosed with pelvic leiomyosarcoma , underwent left hemipelvectomy , and eventually required a colostomy in 2007 , she had a revision of her colostomy in 2010 due to peristomal hernia . 
Since then , she has been having ongoing trouble with rectal pain and bleeding , as well as discomfort related to her peristomal hernia , as well as the development of multiple polyps . 
On April 10 , she presented to St Joseph 's Hospital in Bellingham with abdominal pain and nausea , and was found to have herniation of bowel into her peristomal hernia . 
She was transfused plasma for an elevated INR due to warfarin , which she takes for chronic DVT . 
She was taken to the operating room where the hernia was reduced . 
She was subsequently transferred to the University of Washington for ongoing management . 
When I met with her this afternoon , she said that she felt " hungry and weak , " and she was having ongoing rectal urgency and pain that she has had for the past 10 years . 
ACTIVE AND PAST MEDICAL PROBLEMS : 
1 . Leiomyosarcoma status post surgical resection and chemoradiation , starting in 1999 . 2 . 
Ongoing rectal pain and urgency to defecate since the surgery . 
3 . 
Peristomal hernia with recent herniation of bowel and obstruction . 
4 . History of tubulovillous adenoma and tubular adenoma seen on colonoscopy in the past . 
5 . 
Hiatal hernia and gastroesophageal reflux disease . 
6 . 
Low - density hepatic lesions seen on noncontrast CT . 
7 . 
Extensive left - sided deep venous thrombosis in the left lower extremity in 2013 , an intervention was attempted with placement of venous stents and TPA infusion ; however , these were unsuccessful . 
Per her husband , all of her stents were venous . 
She was subsequently maintained on chronic warfarin , on which she remains on . 
She was seen by Paul Hendrie , MD , PhD , at the SCCA , who was hesitant to discontinue anticoagulation , and suggested trying rivaroxaban because the patient and her husband were attributing some of her rectal symptoms to the use of warfarin . 
The patient and her husband are not entirely sure but they believe that they tried a novel anticoagulant for at least a few days , but with no relief in her symptoms and they went back to warfarin . 
8 . 
Upper extremity line - associated DVT in 1999 , at the time of chemotherapy for her leiomyosarcoma . 
9 . 
Cervical spine stenosis . 
10 . History of decreased ejection fraction at the time of chemotherapy with Adriamycin . 
She and her husband do not recall a requirement for diuretics at the time , nor subsequently . 
She sleeps with the bed flat and has no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . 
She only has edema in her left leg . 
11 . 
History of C diff colitis per chart . 
Neither she nor her husband recall when this was , but she has not been on treatment for this in the recent past . 
12 . 
Obstructive sleep apnea . 
This was diagnosed 7 or 8 years ago . 
She uses CPAP 2 - 3 times a week . 
13 . 
Chronic renal disease stated in the chart , stage III , attributed to Adriamycin , most recent Cr shown below . 
14 . 
History of rosacea . 
15 . 
Osteoarthritis . 
16 . 
Vitamin B12 deficiency . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY : 
1 . Hysterectomy and BSO in the 1980 s for benign reasons . 
2 . 
Partial colon resection in 1997 for intussusception . 
3 . 
Left hemipelvectomy for leiomyosarcoma in 1999 . 
4 . 
Transverse colostomy in 2007 . 
5 . Revision of colostomy in 2010 . 
6 . Appendectomy . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION : 
1 . Fluvastatin 40 mg p.o . 
at bedtime . 2 . 
Pregabalin 75 mg p.o . twice daily . 
3 . 
Calcium citrate 400 mg p.o . 
daily . 
4 . 
Lorazepam 0.5 mg , 1 to 2 tablets p.o . 
at bedtime as needed . 
5 . 
Fexofenadine 60 mg p.o . 
twice daily as needed . 
6 . 
Acetaminophen 500 mg 2 tablets p.o . 
every 4 to 6 hours as needed . 
7 . 
Quinine 324 mg 1 to 2 tablets p.o . 
at bedtime as needed for leg spasms . 
8 . 
Ergocalciferol 50 , 000 units p.o . 
3 times a week . 
9 . 
Hydromorphone 4 mg 2 tablets p.o . 
every 3 hours as needed . 
10 . 
Dicyclomine 10 mg 1 to 2 capsules p.o . 
four times per day as needed . 
11 . 
Potassium chloride 20 mg p.o . 
twice daily . 
12 . 
Warfarin , most recently taking 10 mg p.o . 
daily . 
13 . 
Fentanyl 50 microgram patch every 48 hours . 
[ also apparently takes duloxetine , I did not confirm this at the time of my interview ] ALLERGIES : CODEINE CAUSED NAUSEA . 
MORPHINE CAUSED RASH . 
OXYCODONE CAUSED NAUSEA . 
IODINATED CONTRAST CAUSED DIFFICULTY BREATHING . 
SOCIAL HISTORY : 
She lives in Blaine . 
She is a retired schoolteacher . 
She and her husband do not have any children . 
She smoked for many years but quit 30 years ago . 
She smoked about a pack a day . 
No alcohol . 
No illicit or recreational drugs . 
FAMILY HISTORY : 
Mother died at the age of 92 of breast cancer . 
Father died at the age of 71 from a myocardial infarction . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS : CV : No orthopnea , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . 
No history of chest pain with maximal exertion , she does get short of breath with exertion . 
No right lower extremity edema . 
EXERCISE TOLERANCE : 
She can walk about 6 blocks with a walker . 
She is limited by her left leg since the left hemipelvectomy . 
She has a stair lift at home and can not really climb stairs . 
She does not have chest pain with maximal exertion . 
GU 
: She has a decreased urge to urinate . 
PULMONARY : 
No cough , no wheezing . 
NEUROLOGIC : No stroke . 
No ER visits with concern of stroke . 
ENDOCRINE : 
No thyroid disease . 
No diabetes , no steroid use . 
In addition , a complete review of systems was done and was otherwise negative or as documented in the history of presenting illness and past medical history . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION : VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 37.4 , heart rate 84 , respirations 18 , oxygen saturation 98 % on room air , blood pressure 131 / 76 . 
GENERAL : 
This is a pleasant woman in no acute distress , sitting in bed . 
HEENT : 
Head is normocephalic , atraumatic . 
NECK : No supraclavicular lymphadenopathy . 
PULMONARY : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
No wheezes or rales . 
CV : 
S1 , S2 . 
No S3 , S4 . 
Regular rate with periodic premature beats , there is a 2 / 6 midsystolic late peaking murmur , audible best at the right upper sternal border but also audible along the left sternal border . 
It is not audible above the right clavicle . 
There is a left carotid bruit . 
Murmur is not audible over the right carotid . 
There is no brachial radial delay . 
ABDOMEN : Positive bowel sounds . 
Colostomy with large peristomal hernia . 
SKIN : 
Warm and dry . 
EXTREMITIES 
: She has 1+ edema in the left lower extremity , none on the right . 
NEUROLOGIC : Alert , interactive , moving all four extremities . 
PSYCHIATRIC : Appears anxious . 
STUDIES : 4/10/2016 , CT of abdomen and pelvis without contrast . 
Impression : Small bowel obstruction related to peristomal hernia , evaluation for bowel wall thickening and possible ischemia is limited secondary to lack of oral and IV contrast . 
New small amount of free fluid in the perihepatic and perisplenic regions . 
Multiple small hepatic low - density lesions , likely representing small cysts or angiomas . 
These are stable . 
Gallstones without evidence of acute cholecystitis or biliary obstruction . 
History of prior left pelvic surgery for leiomyosarcoma . 
3/31/2016 , CT of abdomen and pelvis without contrast . 
Conclusion : Thickening of the afferent colon at the colostomy , treatment changes of the left hemipelvis with a chronic pseudoarthrosis at the expected location of the left sacroiliac joint , cholelithiasis , chronic thrombosis of the left iliac veins . 
9/21/2012 , MRI of cervical spine without contrast . 
Impression : Moderate spinal stenosis of C4 - 5 and C5 - 6 . 
There is borderline to mild C3 - 4 spinal stenosis and multilevel foraminal stenoses as described in the full report , greatest at C4 - C7 , straightening and mild reversal of cervical lordosis , small chronic - appearing lacunar infarct in the left cerebellar hemisphere . 
LABORATORY DATA : 4/11/2016 , sodium 140 , potassium 3.4 , chloride 107 , bicarbonate 25 , BUN 17 , creatinine 0.96 , GFR greater than 60 , calcium 7.8 , magnesium 1.8 , phosphate 2.9 . 
White blood cell count 9.2 , hematocrit 32 , MCV 90 , platelets 172 . 
4/10/2016 , white blood cell count 11.7 , hematocrit 35.8 , MCV 89.7 , platelets 204 . 
9/21/2015 , white blood cell count of 7.5 , hematocrit 36.3 , platelets 213 . 
4/10/2016 , sodium 137 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 101 , bicarbonate 30 , BUN 35 , creatinine 1.2 , AST 24 , ALT 19 , protein 4.8 , albumin 2.8 , total bilirubin 0.4 , lipase 21 . 
ASSESSMENT : 
A 72 - year - old woman on chronic anticoagulation for a history of DVT , a history of leiomyosarcoma status post chemoradiotherapy and surgical resection , peristomal hernia with recent small bowel obstruction and chronic rectal pain , obstructive sleep apnea and other medical problems , presenting prior to proposed revision of colostomy and repair of peristomal hernia . 1 . 
Perioperative risk stratification . 
A . 
Based on the Gupta perioperative cardiac risk calculator , she has an estimated 1.86 % probability of perioperative myocardial infarction or cardiac arrest . 
B . 
Based on the American Colleges of Surgeons NSQIP based surgical risk calculator for revision of colostomy , complicated , she has a 15 % risk of a serious complication , a 27 % risk of any complication , a 0.6 % risk of a cardiac complication , and a 2 % risk of death . C . 
Based on the revised cardiac risk index , she has a 0.9 % risk of a major cardiac event . 
D. 
My overall clinical impression is that indeed her risks are average to above average for complications , cardiac complications and death ; however , other than her nutritional status , I do not see any specific medical problems that could be optimized prior to the proposed surgery , and these risks should not preclude proceeding . 
Please see further discussion and recommendations below . 
2 . History of leiomyosarcoma status post chemoradiation and surgical resection . 
3 . 
Chronic rectal pain and fecal urgency . 
4 . 
Peristomal hernia with recent small bowel obstruction . 
5 . History of tubulovillous and tubular adenoma of the colon . 
6 . 
Hiatal hernia with gastroesophageal reflux disease . 
7 . 
Low - density lesions in the liver seen on CT scan . 
8 . 
Chronic left lower extremity DVT - - The patient has venous stents that were placed in 2013 , and also had infusion of TPA . 
However , she has continued to have a chronic clot in the left lower extremity and has remained on anticoagulation . 
9 . History of line - associated DVT in 1999 . 
10 . 
Cervical spine stenosis . 
11 . 
History of decreased ejection fraction , per patient , related to chemotherapy toxicity . 
No current evidence of symptomatic congestive heart failure . 
12 . 
History of C difficile colitis , unknown chronology . 
13 . 
Obstructive sleep apnea . 
She only uses CPAP 2 or 3 times a week . 
14 . 
Chronic renal insufficiency due to Adriamycin , her most recent creatinine in the normal range . 
15 . 
Rosacea . 
16 . 
Osteoarthritis . 
17 . 
Vitamin B12 deficiency . 
18 . 
Protein calorie malnutrition as evidenced by low albumin and muscle wasting . 
19 . 
Anemia . 
20 . 
Systolic murmur . 
She has no symptoms concerning for severe aortic stenosis . 
There is no brachial radial delay and the murmur is not audible above the right clavicle and it is not completely holosystolic . 
I think , since the outpatient echocardiogram was planned , obtaining an echo prior to the proposed surgery is reasonable . 
RECOMMENDATIONS : 
1 . 
Please confirm that the patient actually takes duloxetine ( Cymbalta ) , as this was not on the medication list that I reviewed with her . 
2 . 
I agree with the echocardiogram to confirm that her murmur is not due to severe aortic stenosis . 
3 . 
Given the extent of her left lower extremity DVT and how rapidly it seemingly formed , I think it is most appropriate to use bridging anticoagulation with enoxaparin or a heparin drip prior to the surgery . 
If enoxaparin is used , 1 mg/kg subcutaneous every 12 hours should be started , with the last dose the morning prior to the surgery . 
After the surgery , after 48 to 72 hours , therapeutic dose enoxaparin can be started as can warfarin , if it is felt to be safe from the postoperative bleeding perspective . 
4 . 
Please obtain a 12 - lead EKG . 
We will review this tomorrow . 
5 . 
Please consult respiratory therapy for CPAP , note that CPAP should only be used on the floor for her usual sleeping needs and should not be used for any evidence of respiratory insufficiency , somnolence or hypercarbia . 
6 . 
Early mobilization and incentive spirometry . 
Thank you for involving me in the care of this patient . 
Dr. Jackson will follow for the medicine consult team starting on April 14 . 
Please do not hesitate to contact us if we can be of any further assistance . 
I talked to the primary team . 
