SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Rica Hablero is a delightful 24 - year - old female with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon diagnosed in February 2009 . 
KRAS gene is wild - type . 
She is seen today during ongoing systemic chemotherapy . 
CURRENT TREATMENT FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab . 
TREATMENT SUMMARY 1 . 
See my clinic note dated December 6 , 2010 . 2 . 
December 7 , 2010 through the present : Systemic chemotherapy with FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Naprosyn as needed for pain . 
2 . Stool softeners as needed . 
3 . Vitamin D3 . 
4 . B vitamins . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Rica received her first cycle of FOLFIRI and bevacizumab on December 7 . 
She is here today for her second cycle . 
She notes that she has intermittent abdominal pain rating it approximately 3 - 4/10 in intensity . 
She has occasional blood in her stool . 
She has fatigue on the first few days of chemotherapy and sleeps a lot , and then has trouble sleeping on the third and fourth day of chemotherapy . 
She remains frustrated that her cancer has grown again and is having difficulty accepting that fact and focusing her energies on taking care of herself and getting her chemotherapy . 
She has no fevers , chills , or sweats today . 
She has no nausea or vomiting . 
Her bowels are loose but not diarrhea . 
ECOG PERFORMANCE STATUS 1 - 2 . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : 
Blood pressure 114 / 70 , pulse 72 , respirations 16 , temperature 36.2 degrees Celsius . 
Weight 55.2 kg . 
GENERAL : Rica is a well - appearing female in no physical distress . 
She is alert , oriented , and appropriate . 
She is emotional when talking about the difficulties of chemotherapy and the frustration relating to her cancer progression . 
HEENT : 
Her sclerae are anicteric . 
Oral exam is benign . 
NECK : Supple without mass . 
LYMPH : There are no lymph nodes in the cervical , supraclavicular , or axillary region . 
LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm without murmur , rub , or gallop . 
ABDOMEN : 
Soft . 
Tender to palpation fairly diffusely but most in the right lower quadrant , with a little bit of voluntary guarding . 
No rebound . 
Bowel sounds are present . 
EXTREMITIES : No clubbing or edema . 
SKIN : 
No rash or jaundice . 
LABS Dated December 21 , 2010 : Glucose 101 , BUN 10 , creatinine 0.6 , calcium 9.5 , LDH 148 , AST 67 , ALT 90 , alkaline phosphatase 101 , albumin 4.1 , white count 3.9 , hemoglobin 11.5 , hematocrit 35 % , platelets 273 , neutrophils 1.8 , lymphocytes 1.3 . 
CEA pending , compared to 23.5 on December 7 , 2010 . 
ASSESSMENT Rica is a very nice 24 - year - old female with metastatic colon cancer . 
She was diagnosed in February 2009 . 
KRAS gene is wild - type . 
She has peritoneal metastases and is currently status post surgical resection of visible peritoneal disease , followed , unfortunately , by a rapid rise in CEA during the surgical recovery . 
She is now back on chemotherapy . 
She is suffering some moderate chemotherapy toxicity in the form of fatigue , abdominal pain and loose stools . 
She is suffering a lot emotionally in terms of her disappointment with what is happening with her cancer . 
I have recommended to her that she accept some help from counseling here at the SCCA , however , she declines . 
I will continue to ask her . 
I encouraged her today to get back into an exercise program and take good care of herself physically . 
I asked her to accept the way things are so that she can move forward with a plan of attack against the cancer . 
PLAN 1 . 
FOLFIRI and bevacizumab today 
. 2 . 
Continue full supportive care . 
3 . 
Recommend counseling - declined by the patient . 
4 . 
Anita Mitchell , another patient of mine , has been in contact with Rica and is helping with some of the emotional support and patient advocacy issues . 
TIME STATEMENT I spent 25 minutes of face - to - face time today with Rica and her mother and Anita Mitchell was present for this visit as well . 
More than half the visit was devoted to counseling as described above . 
