SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE CLINIC NOTE HISTORY Ms. Jury returns today for routine surveillance followup . 
She is a 59 - year - old woman who had a high - grade pleomorphic sarcoma in the right clavicular area and brachial plexus . 
She had preoperative chemotherapy , only 1 cycle , with Dr. Loggers . 
She had some chemotherapy toxicity . 
She had preoperative radiation therapy and surgical resection on August 9 , 2012 . 
Postoperatively , she had slow wound healing and cellulitis , which were treated with several courses of p.o . 
antibiotics , and the wound eventually resolved and became more supple , and her radiation and cellulitic changes resolved . 
Today , she reports that she still has nerve pain that goes down her arm . 
She has intermittent numbness in her hand and weakness . 
She feels the nerve pain more after physical activity with the right upper extremity . 
She complains of fatigue , but has no specific concerns regarding her incision or tumor issues today . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : She appears in no acute distress . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL 
: She has good range of motion of her right shoulder and good strength of the biceps and triceps and deltoid . 
She is neurovascularly intact with her radial , median and ulnar nerve function . 
She is distally without edema . 
SKIN : Her incision is supple , without dense fibrosis , but does have some hyperpigmentation consistent with radiation change . 
IMAGING CT of the chest has been officially read by the radiologist as clear , and the MRI also is reported as saying no evidence of recurrence or residual tumor . 
IMPRESSION High - grade pleomorphic sarcoma of the right clavicle and brachial plexus , 2 months out from her surgery date , which was August 2012 , with no evidence of disease . 
PLAN 
We will go to 6 - month followups at this point and see her back in 6 months with an MRI of the right shoulder , clavicle and brachial plexus and a CT of the chest for surveillance . 
She was not seen today with Dr. Conrad . 
