SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE CLINIC NOTE HISTORY Ms. Jury returns today for followup . 
She is a 58 - year - old woman who had a high - grade pleomorphic sarcoma in the right clavicular region and brachial plexus . 
She had preoperative chemotherapy 1 cycle with Dr. Loggers . 
She did have some chemotherapy toxicity . 
She had preoperative radiation therapy and surgical resection on August 9 , 2012 . 
She had slow wound healing due to the radiation therapy and she had postoperative cellulitis , which were closely watched until they resolved . 
She had an erythematous area along her surgical site for several months and this was treated with several courses of p.o . 
antibiotics 
and they eventually resolved . 
She does have some clicking and some discomfort in her shoulder joint from some shoulder instability as a result of clavicle procedure ; otherwise , she has no complaints . 
She is happy with the appearance of the incision as the darkening and erythema have resolved . 
She does still feel some shocking pains in the area occasionally . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : She appears in no acute distress . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : 
Has excellent range of motion of the right shoulder . 
She has some thickening and fibrosis of the skin and soft tissues on palpation of the right clavicle , but the skin itself is very minimally hyperpigmented and nearly normal . 
No palpable masses . 
Her distal upper extremity is without edema . 
IMAGING CT of the chest from today has been officially read by the radiologist as clear and the MRI has not yet been read , but appears clear on my review . 
IMPRESSION High - grade pleomorphic sarcoma of the right clavicle and brachial plexus , now 1 year and 9 months past the surgery date . 
PLAN 
We will see her back again in 3 months and after that time we will go to 6 - month followup . 
She will have an MRI of the right shoulder clavicle and brachial plexus and a CT of the chest . 
We will see her at that time . 
She was not seen today with Dr. Conrad . 
Addendum 6 - 19 - 14 : 
CT and MR have been read as negative by the radiologist . 
