ADMISSION DATE 01/06/2014 . 
DISCHARGE DATE 01/28/2014 . 
IDENTIFICATION Mr Speight is a 63 - year - old gentleman with refractory diffuse large B - cell lymphoma , who was admitted to the University of Washington Medical Center for chemotherapy and following CAR - T cells infusion to treat his disease . 
PROBLEM LIST 1 . 
Protocols . 
Mr Speight was treated according to protocol 2639 . 
He also signed protocol 999 - 209 . 2 . 
Chemotherapy . 
Mr Speight received chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and etoposide . 
Cyclophosphamide was given on January 10 , at a dose of 3 grams / sq m as a single IV infusion . 
He also received etoposide at a dose of 200 mg / sq m daily for 3 days from January 10 through January 12 . 
On January 13 , he had a day of rest and on January 14 , Mr Speight received CAR - T cells . 
He tolerated chemotherapy fairly well without significant side effects except for the mild nausea . 
3 . 
Hematology . 
Mr Speight 's transfusion thresholds were 26 % of hematocrit for red blood cells transfusion and 50 , 000 platelets for platelet transfusion initially . 
The higher platelet transfusion thresholds were set because of anticoagulation with Lovenox , which Mr Speight received for history of pulmonary embolism . 
When his platelets went below 50 , 000 his platelet transfusion thresholds were changed to 10 , 000 . 
He received red blood cells as well as platelet transfusion during the period of cytopenia which he developed after chemotherapy . 
He tolerated blood product transfusion well without notable side effects . 
He required premedication with Benadryl and Tylenol prior to red blood cells transfusion and platelets transfusion . 
His enoxaparin was discontinued on January 15 , and we are discharging Mr Speight with no anticoagulation since his platelets count is still below 50 , 000 . 
Due to neutropenia , Mr Speight started on filgrastim at a dose of 300 micrograms subcutaneously daily on January 16 . 
Upon discharge , we discontinued filgrastim administration because he is not neutropenic anymore and for the last 2 days before discharge his neutrophil counts were above 1000 . 
During this hospital stay his hematocrit ranged from 23 % to 32 % , the platelet count ranged from 110 , 000 to 9000 and absolute neutrophil counts ranged from undetectable level to 10 , 000 . 
4 . 
CAR - T cells reinfusion . 
Mr Speight received chimeric antigen receptor T cells on January 14 , 2014 , at a dose of 2 million cells per kg , which was given 48 and 96 hours after completion of his chemotherapy . 
He tolerated T cells infusion well without notable side effect . 
5 . 
Infections . 
Mr Speight has no documented bacterial , viral or fungal infection during this hospital stay ; however , he developed fever on January 16 , and he was started on ceftazidime which was switched to meropenem on January 20 . 
He continued on meropenem from January 20 to January 26 . 
On January 26 , meropenem was discontinued . 
He also received vancomycin from January 16 to January 27 given the fact that he developed blistering and redness over the skin of the tumor which he has on his right shoulder . 
We performed a culture from his wound on the right shoulder on January 14 , which grew Gram - positive cocci , Gram - positive rods and presumptive diphtheroids . 
There is no positive blood culture documented . 
Mr Speight was febrile for approximately 7 days . 
His body temperature fluctuated from 37.6 to 38.3 . 
At the time of discharge he was afebrile . 
All his surveillance culture showed no growth to date or was negative . 
At the time of discharge he was off the antibiotics ; however , he will continue his Valtrex for VZV and HSV prophylaxis . 
6 . 
Pneumonitis . 
Mr Speight presented initially with symptoms indicating significant involvement of respiratory system . 
He experienced shortness of breath on exertion . 
His chest CT from January 7 , 2014 revealed no enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes , bilateral dependent atelectasis and small volume right pleural effusion . 
His chest x - ray from January 20 , revealed interval increase in elevation of diaphragm concerning of phrenic nerve dysfunction , right base atelectasis and small right pleural effusion still persisted . 
This imaging was taken when Mr Speight developed fever . 
His last chest x - ray was taken on January 24 , and revealed decreased right pleural effusion and minimal right basilar consolidation , which likely represented atelectasis as well as clear left lung . 
At the time of discharge , Mr Speight has no complaints of shortness of breath . 
He has no evidence of exertional dyspnea nor cough and other symptoms indicating respiratory distress . 
7 . Regimen related toxicity . 
Mr Speight developed minimal symptoms indicating regimen related toxicity . 
He complained of intermediate nausea . 
He had episodes of vomiting , which quickly resolved on as needed antiemetics . 
He also complained of intermediate diarrhea . 
C difficile PCR was negative and he was started on loperamide and diarrhea resolved within a few days . 
At the time of discharge Mr Speight has no symptoms related to chemotherapy toxicity . 
8 . 
Disease status . 
Mr Speight was restaged before CAR - T cells administration . 
He has CT scan of chest , abdomen and pelvis on January 7 that revealed interval increase in the size of suprascapular soft tissue mass lesion as well as some multiple and new confluence of tissue masses involving the right suprascapular region , supraclavicular region , axillary region and erector spinae muscles . 
There were also stable hepatic hemangiomas noted and no evidence of enlarged lymph nodes in the mediastinum or abdomen . 
Peripheral blood flow cytometry revealed no abnormal B cells population . 
He also underwent bone marrow biopsy on January 6 , which revealed no abnormal B cells population by flow cytometry . 
Diagnostic lumbar puncture was not performed given the fact that Mr Speight has no clinical evidence of CNS involvement . 
There were no formal restaging performed after CAR - T cells administration . 
There was no laboratory evidence of tumor lysis syndrome ; however , the tumor size was decreased . 
9 . 
Pain . 
Mr Speight has significant problem with pain control . 
He was admitted with pain 8 - 9/10 , mainly in his right shoulder and upper back . 
He was admitted on 250 micrograms per hour transdermal fentanyl patch and also on as needed morphine 15 - 30 mg p.o . 
every 4 hours . 
The morphine p.o . 
was switched to morphine PCA on admission and pain service consult was ordered . 
Since admission , Mr Speight 's pain was managed by chronic pain service consult . 
He was intermediately on morphine PCA but at the time of discharge he is on fentanyl patch 150 micrograms per hour every 72 hours and as needed morphine from 15 mg to 30 mg p.o . 
every 4 hours . 
During this hospital stay , Mr Speight 's pain is significantly improved and his opioid use is decresed . 
10 . 
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition . 
Mr Speight was transiently hypokalemic and hyponatremic . 
His electrolytes were replaced on as needed basis . 
He was placed on free water restriction due to significant hyponatremia , at the time of discharge his hyponatremia significantly improved at his sodium level 131 . 
He was off free water restriction . 
His potassium and magnesium levels also were within normal range for the last 5 days . 
He was taken off IV fluids 2 days before discharge and was able to keep his electrolytes within normal range . 
11 . 
Neurologic . 
On admission , Mr Speight had significant neurological problems related to his tumor . 
He was unable to lift his right arm . 
He also has sensitivity impairment on both hands . 
His muscle strengths were 1 - 2 on the right and 1 on the left hand . 
He could not hold the object by his left hand . 
He even could not push the PCA button . 
Over the course of staying and decreasing in size of tumor , his muscle strength significantly improved . 
He also regained some sensation in his hands and neck area which was previously numb . 
Even he was able to shower himself which was considered a great improvement in his muscle strength . 
He was able to ambulate in the hallways independently without using the front wheeled walker . 
He was able to climb 2 stairs . 
12 . 
Cardiovascular . 
Mr Speight has history of hypertension and he was admitted on Norvasc . 
He also required as needed hydralazine in the beginning of hospital stay . 
However , at the time of discharge his blood pressure is in the normal limit for several days and he has no episodes of high blood pressure . 
However , we discharged him on Norvasc 5 mg p.o . 
daily and showed good blood pressure control . 
13 . 
Circulatory . 
Mr Speight has a history of pulmonary embolism and he was on Lovenox . 
We discontinued his Lovenox due to thrombocytopenia . 
We will discharge him on no anticoagulation ; however , he needs to restart his Lovenox when his platelet counts are going to be above 50 , 000 . 
Mr Speight also had transthoracic echocardiogram on January 9 , as a part of his pre CAR - T cells infusion evaluation and it has revealed left ventricular ejection fraction of 64 % , normal diastolic function , normal right ventricular size and systolic function , normal estimated pulmonary artery pressure , normal DISCHARGE LABORATORY DATA Serum chemistry as of January 28 , 2014 . 
Sodium is 131 , potassium 3.2 , glucose level 117 , BUN 12 , creatinine 0.53 , GFR more than 60 , calcium 8.8 , magnesium 2.0 and phosphate 3.2 . 
Uric acid is 1.6 . 
LDH is 461 , AST 23 , ALT 31 , alkaline phosphatase 71 . 
Bilirubin is 0.2 , bilirubin direct 0.1 , protein total 5.0 and albumin 2.6 . 
Complete blood cell count as of January 28 . 
WBC is 2.66 , RBC 3.31 , Hb is 10.2 , HCT 30 % and platelets 11 , 000 . 
ANC is 1.8 thousand . 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Alprazolam 0.5 mg p.o . 
every 8 hours as needed . 
2 . 
Allopurinol 300 mg p.o . 
daily . 
3 . 
Amlodipine 5 mg p.o . 
daily . 
4 . 
Docusate 100 mg p.o . twice daily as needed . 
5 . 
Fentanyl transdermal patch 150 micrograms per hour every 72 hours . 
6 . 
Gabapentin 600 mg p.o . 
3 times a day . 
7 . 
Magnesium oxide 400 mg p.o . 
twice daily . 
8 . 
Morphine 15 - 30 mg p.o . 
every 4 hours as needed for pain . 
9 . 
Multivitamins 1 tablet p.o . 
daily . 
10 . 
Ondansetron 4 mg p.o . 
every 8 hours as needed for nausea and vomiting . 
11 . 
Acyclovir 500 mg p.o . twice daily . 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES 1 . 
Refractory diffuse large B - cell lymphoma , status post auto transplant in August 2012 , status post allotransplant in January 2013 and currently day # 13 status post CAR - T cells infusion . 
There is no formal restaging of his disease performed during this hospital stay and we deferred the restating to the outpatient team . 2 . 
Hematology . 
The patient is not neutropenic . 
He , however , is thrombocytopenic and need platelets transfusion . 
We recommended to follow his complete blood cells count daily . 
His G - CSF was discontinued the day before discharge and we expect that his thrombocytopenia should be resolved fairly soon . 
3 . 
Tumor lysis . 
There was no laboratory evidence of tumor lysis syndrome during this hospital stay . 
However , the size of the tumor got smaller . 
His tumor lysis labs need to be followed at least on a weekly basis . 
We also recommended to check the body temperature at least twice a day . 
If there is fever more than 38.3 , then the principal investigator of the protocol or research nurse should be notified and cytokine labs needs to be drawn . 
There is absolutely no administration of corticosteroids indicated before consulting the principal investigator of the protocol . 
4 . 
Chronic pain significantly improved at the time of discharge . 
We are recommending to follow with outpatient pain service to manage Mr Speight 's pain in the future . 
5 . 
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition imbalance . 
At the time of discharge , Mr Speight had no problems with p.o . 
food and fluid intake . 
We are discharging him with no IV fluids . 
His labs need to be checked , however , at least twice a week . 
6 . 
Hypertension . 
Mr Speight has a history of hypertension . 
At the time of discharge he is normotensive . 
We are discharging him on 5 mg of p.o . 
Norvasc . 
7 . History of pulmonary embolism . 
Mr Speight was previously on anticoagulation with Lovenox ; however , he still remains thrombocytopenic . 
We are discharging him with no anticoagulation , which needs to be restarted when Mr Speight 's platelets will be more than 50 , 000 . 
8 . 
Musculoskeletal problems . 
Mr Speight has significant muscle weakness . 
However , it improved over hospital stay . 
He , however , could benefit from extensive physical therapy which could be set in outpatient settings . 
DISPOSITION Mr Speight will be discharged today to SCCA Outpatient Aqua team . 
The verbal report about Mr Speight was given to Asma Anwar , MD who is currently Aqua team provider . 
UW Medicine physicians included in this note can be reached by calling 206 - 598 - 3300 . 
This note and other patient records are available online through U - Link . 
To enroll , go to uwmedicine . 
org 
/ u - link or call 206 - 598 - 5693 . 
