SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE GI ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE REASON FOR VISITATION Metastatic colon cancer . 
PROFILE Mr. Ryan Gabriel is a very pleasant 37 - year - old gentleman who was initially diagnosed with an adenocarcinoma in the distal sigmoid colon . 
He underwent a lower anterior resection on April 5 , 2012 , with Dr. Steven Medwell at Swedish Medical Center . 
Pathology revealed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma penetrating through the muscularis propria with 15 of 30 lymph nodes positive . 
There was also discontinuous extramural extension with a focus of adenocarcinoma within the muscularis propria of the distal EA donut . 
Postoperative PET - CT evaluation unfortunately revealed PET avid lesions in the right hepatic lobe , as well as a possible pelvic sidewall lymph node which is indeterminate . 
KRAS mutational analysis revealed a 13 D mutation . 
The patient was initiated on FOLFOX plus bevacizumab and completed a total of 6 cycles of therapy with good radiographic response . 
On August 16 , 2012 , he was taken to the Operating Room by Dr. James at Park at the University of Washington for planned liver resection . 
Intraoperatively , he was found to have surface fibrotic lesions in a few segments of the liver which were treated with wedge resection and ablation . 
The segment 6 lesion which appeared to be the largest on preoperative imaging scans could no longer be visualized intraoperatively by ultrasound and therefore segmental resection was not pursued given that it was likely the patient had occult disease in other locations . 
Additionally , colonic serosal nodules were biopsied . 
Pathology revealed no evidence of viable carcinoma in any of the specimens , either in the colonic serosal nodules or the liver lesions consistent with a complete pathologic response to chemotherapy . 
Nonetheless , despite his aggressive disease the decision was made to pursue postoperative systemic chemotherapy which was initiated on September 7 , 2012 . 
He received FOLFOX , bevacizumab for a total of 10 cycles of treatment . 
He is here today for followup visit . 
SUBJECTIVE 
Overall , Ryan is doing very well . 
His chemotherapy toxicities are largely improving . 
He reports grade 1 peripheral neuropathy , which continues to resolve particularly in the feet . 
He does have some residual symptoms in his fingertips . 
He is back to full exercise . 
He is working out regularly . 
He denies any nausea . 
No other major complaints . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Reviewed and as noted above . 
Otherwise , negative . 
ECOG performance status is zero . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature 36.1 , heart rate 78 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 122 / 78 . 
Weight is 85.9 kg . 
GENERAL : He appears comfortable , in no acute distress . 
NEURO : 
Alert and oriented x3 . 
Intact strength . 
Normal gait . 
SKIN : No rashes seen . 
LABORATORIES Largely stable . 
A CEA protein level is 0.8 . 
Chemistries , liver function and CBC are normal . 
IMPRESSION AND PLAN 
In summary , Ryan Gabriel is a 37 - year - old gentleman with metastatic sigmoid colon cancer to the right hepatic lobe , with evidence of complete pathologic response to FOLFOX plus bevacizumab chemotherapy . 
At this point , Ryan has received a total of 7 months of perioperative chemotherapy with evidence of a complete pathologic response to his preoperative chemotherapy . 
We have made the decision to discontinue FOLFOX as it is unclear that ongoing treatment will be of benefit to him . 
We will at this juncture obtain a CT of the chest , abdomen and pelvis to restage him . 
His last scan was back in August . 
Certainly , the complete pathologic response to treatment portends a better prognosis , however , he does have multifocal disease and certainly features which are concerning ( poorly differentiated histology , KRAS 13 D mutation rest 13 beat mutation ) even in the absence of measurable disease . 
We discussed the option of maintenance chemotherapy . 
There is not a lot of data in this setting , however , there is some evidence that complete discontinuation of chemotherapy in the setting of metastatic disease is associated with an increased risk of progression and worse outcome . 
One strategy therefore is to continue him on single agent Xeloda . 
In addition , we will concurrently treat him with celecoxib given possible impact on ( cancer stem cells ) . 
We also discussed the approach of radiation therapy to prevent a pelvic recurrence from his low sigmoid cancer given that there were serosal nodules at the time of surgery which are concerning that the disease had in fact spread to the serosal surface of the colon , however , given that he had no viable disease in these nodules I am not certain that additional radiation therapy would be of benefit . 
Moreover , he has had such a good response to chemotherapy and the toxicities of radiation are not minor , we elected together to not pursue radiation therapy . 
I will discuss his case at our Multidisciplinary Tumor Board to get consensus from the group in the meantime will set him up to return to clinic for CT evaluation in the next couple of weeks . 
She was asked to call should any questions or concerns arise in the meantime . 
I spent approximately 25 minutes with Ryan , over 50 % of this time spent in counseling and coordination of care related to metastatic colon cancer . 
