SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE HEMATOLOGY CLINIC DATE OF SERVICE June 3 , 2013 IDENTIFICATION Ms. Roberts - Hoskins is a 59 - year - old woman with newly diagnosed de novo high - risk MDS ( IPSS score 5 ) , normal karyotype by conventional cytogenetics ; FISH analysis was not performed . 
Blast percentage at diagnosis was 12 % to 15 % by morphology and 13 % by flow . 
The patient comes in today to sign consent for protocol 2592 which is a phase 1B - 2 open - label multicenter trial to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of an oral hedgehog inhibitor in combination with chemotherapy ( 7 + 3 with 60 mg of daunorubicin m ( 2 ) on days 1 through 3 , and ara - C at 100 mg / m ( 2 ) as a continuous infusion from days 1 through 7 ) . 
INTERVAL HISTORY 
The patient reports that she is overall feeling well . 
At her initial visit , we discussed randomization between AML - like therapy versus MDS - like therapy for her newly - diagnosed high - risk MDS with refractory anemia with excess blasts . 
The patient elected to undergo AML treatment for her disease . 
She reports no new events since last visit . 
She is overall feeling well . 
She has chronic joint pain for which she is taking anti - inflammatories and an opiate agonist - buprenorphine . 
She is accompanied by her daughter - in - law . 
She moved to Seattle to her ex - husband 's house to be closer to the SCCA for the duration of her leukemia treatment . 
She reports some concern as her room had some moist mold . 
She claims that she did some cleaning , but most of it was done by her daughter - in - law . 
Currently , the room has no visible molds . 
The room is well ventilated and gets partial sun light . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Cymbalta . 
2 . Armour Thyroid . 3 . 
Estradiol . 
4 . 
Combivent . 
5 . Trazodone . 
6 . 
Buprenorphine . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : 
This is a well - appearing woman , very pleasant , in no distress . 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature 36.7 Celsius , pulse 80 , respiratory rate 14 , blood pressure 142 / 70 . 
Weight 78.5 kilos . 
HEENT : 
Oropharynx is clear . 
Good dentition . 
No lesions . 
NECK : Supple . 
No lymphadenopathy appreciated on exam . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : Regular rhythm and rate . 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops . 
LUNGS : Clear bilaterally . 
ABDOMEN : 
Soft , nontender . 
No hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : No edema . 
LABORATORIES None from today . 
STUDIES 
A pre - treatment EKG performed today showed normal sinus rhythm with a ventricular rate of 66 , a PR interval 170 , QT of 420 , QTc 440 msec . 
There is no ST elevation or TO wave abnormalities noted . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Ms. Kevin Roberts - Hoskins is a 59 - year - old woman with a history of asthma , depression , and pain , presumably from osteoarthritis , who was recently diagnosed with de novo MDS - refractory anemia excess blasts , high - risk disease with IPSS score of 5 , normal karyotype , but no FISH analysis performed ( blast percentage by morphology estimated 12 % to 15 % , and by flow at 13 % ) . 
ECOG is 1 . 
Path slides from outside had been requested , but not reviewed at the University of Washington yet . 
The patient comes in today to learn more about protocol 2592 , possibly signing consents for initiation of treatment . 
I had a long discussion with the patient and her daughter - in - law today in regards to her diagnosis , prognosis , and treatment options . 
This was also carefully discussed with the patient on her initial visit ; please refer to my note from May 20 , 2013 . 
The patient was offered randomization between MDS versus AML - like therapy for high - risk MDS . 
Nonetheless , she elected to undergo AML treatment . 
Given the fact high - risk MDS is a difficult disease to treat and results from standard therapy are poor , participation in clinical trial eis very resonable . 
I explained to her that this trial includes the back - bone of 7 + 3 , which is the standard therapy for AML modified by hedgehog inhibitor . 
The hedgehog inhibitor is given orally starting 3 days prior to initiation of chemotherapy ; this can be done as outpatient . 
Three days after hedgehog , she is admitted to the hospital for administration of chemotherapy , which includes daunorubicin at 60 mg / m ( 2 ) from days 1 through 3 and ara - C at 100 mg / m ( 2 ) as continuous infusion from days 1 through 7 . 
Hedgehog is given continuously throughout chemotherapy . 
She will continue on hedgehog after completion of chemotherapy as well . 
We discussed the toxicities from this regimen . 
Hedgehog , in general , is a well - tolerated drug . 
Side - effects include mostly fatigue , gastrointestinal upset , and taste change including a metallic taste . 
It is also associated with QTc prolongation , which would be closely monitored throughout her treatment by regular ECGs . 
If QTc is significantly prolonged , hedgehog will need to be withheld . 
If chemotherapy administration is uneventful , she can be discharged home to continue counts , monitoring as an outpatient . 
We discussed the side effects from chemotherapy , which include cytopenias requiring blood and platelet transfusions , fevers , and infectious complications , which can be life - threatening . 
I also discussed with her that in the event she develops a fever , with temperature greater than 100.4 Fahrenheit , she should go immediately to the nearest emergency department . 
She has the contact information to also call the SCCA or University of Washington . 
Hair loss , nausea and vomiting , which can be well - controlled with current antiemetics available were also discussed . 
I then explained to her the additional studies required on this clinical trial , including pharmacokinetic studies that will be performed frequently throughout this study . 
Tara , the study coordinator , was also present to further elucidate the schedule of pharmacokinetic studies and EKGs required on this protocol . 
The patient also is going to have a MUGA scan prior to initiation of anthracycline . 
We went over the cardiac toxicities from anthracycline , which is often secondary to cumulative doses of anthracycline . 
In terms of disease assessment , a bone marrow aspirate will be performed as per protocol on day 21 + 7 days . 
If she is in remission , then consolidation with ara - C at 1 gram / m ( 2 ) twice a day on days 1 , 3 and 5 , will be given according to the protocol . 
Hedgehog is also given continuously without interruption . 
This post - remission chemotherapy is given in 2 to 4 cycles depending on how well the treatment is tolerated . 
This protocol also has a maintenance component that follows the completion of consolidation and is given up to 6 months after consolidation . 
The patient is young and eligible for curative therapy with allogeneic stem cell transplantation . 
HLA typing and donor search have been initiated . 
Of note , the patient has no sibling donors . 
I also discussed infectious prophylaxis with antibiotics once ANC is below 500 . 
Antivirals with acyclovir , as well as antifungals . 
Given the fact that azoles also increase QTc prolongation , we will caspofungin or micafungin infusion while ANC < 500 for antifungal prophylaxis to avoid additional QTc prolongation . 
We plan to complete the pre - chemo workup tomorrow . 
She is scheduled to have a Hickman line placement tomorrow after which she will start hedgehog . 
We will plan to admit her to the hospital on Friday for chemotherapy . 
The patient signed consent for involvement of this clinical protocol . 
Of note , she was given the consent form and protocol information to take home on her visit on May 20 , 2013 . 
She had a number of appropriate questions , which I answered in detail . 
TIME STATEMENT I spent 45 minutes face - to - face with the patient . 
The majority of time was in counseling and coordination of care in regards to the treatment of newly diagnosed de novo MDS and chemotherapy toxicities as described above . 
