SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE PSYCHIATRY NOTE IDENTIFICATION Ms. McGlenn is a 64 - year - old woman with breast cancer , currently receiving chemotherapy , referred for Dr. Catherine Howe from the Psychiatry / Psychology Service for CBT and coping for adjustment disorder related to her cancer treatment . 
HISTORY Ms. McGlenn is accomplanied by her husband Dennis who stayed in the room throughout the session . 
He is her primary caregiver . 
Dennis provides most of her medical history and Ms. McGlenn interrupts or correct him based on her understanding of the medical history . 
She is a retired nurse . 
Ms. McGlenn has been diagnosed with a left - sided breast cancer , invasive lobular type , ER positive , PR negative , and HER - 2 positive . 
She has completed a round chemotherapy , which led to 2 hospitalizations for side - effect complications . 
Her most recent hospitalization was on 05 / 17 through 05 / 22 . 
She is starting another round of chemotherapy , which she is nervous . 
Throughout the interview Ms. McGlenn is tearful and upset at times at her husband . 
She voices concerns about her autonomy and worries about making the best medical decisions for herself versus her husband / medical team . 
She recently saw Dr. Catherine Howe , Psychiatrist on the SCCA Psychiatry / Psychology Service . 
She was prescribed mirtazapine 7.5 to 15 mg at bedtime to help with sleep and anxiety reduction . 
She reports feeling “ over medicated ” and reports visual hallucination when starting the medication . 
She argued with her husband about continuing the medications , but he insisted she continue taking it , which she did . 
They decided to lower the dose and tamper her up on the medication . 
She reports the hallucination has since stopped but she doesn’t like the fact that is taking this medication . 
She also reports worries regarding her medical treatments , chemotherapy toxicity , and her own body sensitivity to all the chemotherapy and the unknown outcomes to medical intervention versus quality of life issues . 
These issues are a strain on her mental health and on her martial relationship . 
She reported a successful treatment of CBT for relationship issues in the past . 
Thus , she is seeking to engage in CBT coping strategies and is interested in Mindfulness Meditation to help with managing her anxiety and depression symptoms . 
ASSESSESMENT Ms. McGlenn completed a series of self - report measure to provide a baseline of her stress , depression and anxiety symptoms prior to engaging in psychological treatment . 
NCCN Distress Thermometer for Patients Total Score = 4 out 10 
This is a measure of patient distress within the past 2 weeks on a scale of 0 ( No distress ) to 10 ( Extreme Distress ) along with a checklist of domains / problems areas the patient identifies as stressful . 
Practical Problems 
: None noted Family Problems : None noted Emotional Problems : Sadness Spiritual 
/ Religious Concerns : 
None noted Physical Problems : 
Memory / Concentration , Mouth sores , Nose dry / Congestion , Pain , Sexual Patient Health Questionnaire - 9 ( PHQ - 9 ) Total 
Score = 9 out of 27 ( Minimal Depression ) 
The PHQ - 9 is a measure of depression symptoms in the past 2 weeks and provides a total severity score ranging from 0 - 27 . 
She scored a total score of 9 , suggestive of minimal depression . 
She endorsed the following symptoms as occurring Nearly Every Day : Sleep too much . 
She endorsed the following symptoms occurring 
More than Half the Days : Little Interest or pleasure in doing things . 
She endorsed the following symptoms occurring for the past Several Days : Feeling Down , depressed , or hopeless ; Feeling tired or having little energy ; poor appetite ; and trouble concentrating . 
She denied any of the following symptoms as Not at all : Feeling bad about yourself ; psychomotor retardation symptoms ; and suicidal ideation . 
She indicated that her depression symptoms cause is Somewhat Difficult regarding her daily functioning . 
General Anxiety Disorder - 7 
( GAD - 7 ) Total Score = 7 ( Mild General Anxiety ) 
The GAD - 7 describes general anxiety symptoms in the past 2 weeks and provides a total severity score ranging from 0 - 21 . 
Her total score was a 7 indicating mild - to moderate anxiety symptoms . 
She endorsed the following symptoms occurring Over Half the Days : Feeling nervous , anxious , or on edge . 
She reported the following symptoms occurring Several Days in the past 2 weeks : 
Not Being Able to Stop Worry ; Worrying about too many different things ; Trouble relaxing ; Being restless ; and Becoming easily annoyed or irritable . 
She denied the following as Not Occurring At All : Feeling afraid as if something awful might happen . 
She indicated Somewhat Difficult were the effects of her anxiety symptoms on her daily functioning . 
Interpretation 
Her PHQ - 9 and GAD - 7 scores along with her distress level suggest she is dealing with difficulties adjusting to her recent cancer diagnosis and treatment . 
MENTAL STATUS EXAM 
The patient was appropriately dressed and groomed . 
She tearful and irritable with her husband during the interview and made good eye contact . 
Mood and affect were anxious , and she was intermittently tearful . 
Speech was of normal rate . 
Thought process was tight and linear . 
Thought content was without suicidal ideation or homicidal ideation . 
She reported past visual hallucinations during the start of her mirtazapine but denied any hallucinations during the interview . 
She was fully oriented . 
Attention was good . 
Memory appeared intact . 
Insight and judgment were good . 
PLAN Ms. Glenn is interested in starting weekly / bi - monthly CBT psychotherapy and Mindfulness Meditation help with her adjustment to her cancer diagnosis and treatment focusing on depression and anxiety symptoms . 
TIME STATEMENT I meet with this patient fro 65 minutes to provide psychiatric evaluation and psychotherapy treatment planning . 
