SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE GI ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Mr. Reynolds is a 46 - year - old man with metastatic rectal cancer who is here for FOLFIRI plus Avastin chemotherapy cycle # 2 . 
He comes in today for a prechemotherapy toxicity assessment . 
CURRENT TREATMENT FOLFIRI plus Avastin , cycle 1 , day 1 August 27 , 2013 . 
Today is cycle # 2 . 
TREATMENT HISTORY : 
1 . Diagnosed with metastatic rectal carcinoma on July 5 , 2013 , after presenting with a history of diarrhea and incomplete stools as well as hematochezia . 
Colonoscopy revealed a rectal mass that was noted to be 10 cm from the anal verge was ulcerated and friable . 
The mass narrowed the lumen and extended from 10 to 17 cm from the anal verge . 
The CT scan of the chest , abdomen , and pelvis revealed liver metastasis with three separate lesions . 
CEA was 3.5 . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS 
Mr. Reynolds did well following his first cycle of chemotherapy . 
He was able to attend a Dave Matthews concert as well as go to a family vacation in Las Vegas without any difficulty . 
Although he is not working currently , he is hopeful to return to work next week . 
His energy level has been normal . 
He had no problems with the chemotherapy . 
He specifically denies any chest pain or chest tightness , fevers or chills , shortness of breath , dyspnea on exertion , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation . 
His bowel movements are regular with normal caliber stool . 
He denies any numbness or tingling difficulty moving any muscles or joints , any problems with urination headache or confusion . 
He did develop one mouth sore which he thought was a canker sore that resolved within 24 hours , with some topical ointment . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
History of alcohol dependency , sober since December 2010 . 
2 . 
Blood transfusion for upper GI bleed secondary to alcohol use in 1999 . 
3 . History of depression . 
4 . 
Seasonal allergies . 
5 . 
Endoscopy on July 5 , 2013 , consistent with gastritis as well as esophagitis . 
ALLERGIES PENICILLIN , MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Vicodin 5 
/ 325 1 tablet PO every 6 hours as needed pain ; using approximately 4 tablets PO daily . 
2 . As needed lorazepam 0.5 to 1 mg PO every 4 - 6 hours as needed for nausea or anxiety ; issues him 1 tablet PO at night . 3 . 
Zofran 8 mg PO every 12 hours as needed nausea . 4 . 
Compazine 10 mg PO every 6 hours as needed nausea . 
5 . 
Senna 1 to 2 tablets PO daily as needed constipation . 
6 . 
MiraLAX 17 grams PO daily as needed constipation 7 . 
Lomotil 1 tablet after each stool up to a total of 8 per day and Imodium one tablet PO twice daily as needed for diarrhea . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : He is an alert and oriented gentleman in no acute distress accompanied by his girlfriend . 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature 36.4 , heart rate 58 and regular , respiratory rate 12 and unlabored . 
Blood pressure 98 / 72 . 
Weight 69.3 , which is a 2 kg weight loss . 
ECOG : 
Performance status is 0 HEENT : Sclerae anicteric . 
Conjunctivae not injected . 
Mouth , no ulcerations are noted . 
Lips are dry . 
NECK : Supple without lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
Good inspiratory effort . 
CARDIAC : S1 , S2 regular . 
No murmur , rubs , or gallops noted . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , flat , nontender . 
No hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : No cords or edema are noted . 
Calves are symmetrical . 
SKIN : 
Without any skin rash . 
LABS Sodium 137 , potassium 4.1 chloride 103 , bicarb 27 , BUN 14 , creatinine 0.83 , calcium 9.9 , AST 20 , ALT 21 , alkaline phosphatase 76 , total bilirubin 7.4 , white count 4.63 , hematocrit 41 % , platelets 339 , 000 with an ANC of 1.48 . 
IMPRESSION AND PLAN 1 . 
Metastatic rectal carcinoma . 
Based on the patient 's labs and ECOG performance status , he is cleared for FOLFIRI plus Avastin chemotherapy cycle # 2 today . 2 . 
Chemotherapy - induced leukopenia . 
Will institute Neulasta with his next cycle of chemotherapy as the patient has mild leukopenia from his chemotherapy . 
3 . 
Cancer related pain . 
The patient is currently using Vicodin . 
He is requiring only 4 tablets to manage his pain . 
We will continue with the current medication . 
4 . 
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition . 
The patient 's weight is relatively stable . 
His labs appear normal . 
He is meeting his caloric needs . 
We will continue to follow him clinically . 
TIME STATEMENT 
Twenty minutes were spent in the care of this patient , the majority of which was face - to - face counseling . 
