SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Ms. Allen is a delightful 54 - year - old woman who is here for cycle 13 , day 1 of ibrutinib on study . 
INTERVAL HISTORY 
Since I last saw Karen , she has overall been doing well . 
She has no new concerns . 
She continues to have nail changes which are overall unchanged . 
She decided not to go in to her allergist . 
She states that if she has an appropriate interval between the ibrutinib and eating , she does not have diarrhea . 
Otherwise , she does have diarrhea if she has ibrutinib shortly prior to eating . 
She states the right axillary subcutaneous nodule is resolved , and resolved within a few days of her last visit . 
She denies any fever , chills , nausea or vomiting . 
Denies any eye symptoms . 
She reports no missed doses . 
She otherwise feels well . 
Bruisability is unchanged . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Comprehensive review of systems was taken and is otherwise fully negative except as per HPI . 
In addition , she states her alopecia is overall stable . 
MEDICATIONS Reports taking all medications as prescribed . 
Please see study medication sheet . 
SOCIAL HISTORY 
Looking forward to her daughter coming home from Spain . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : A well - appearing woman in no acute distress . 
Performance status is zero . 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Blood pressure 121 / 76 , respiratory rate 16 , pulse 59 , temperature 37.0 . 
Weight 74.6 kg . 
HEENT : Sclerae anicteric . 
Oropharynx without lesions . 
NECK : Supple . 
CHEST : Clear to auscultation . 
CARDIAC : Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs . 
PMI is nondisplaced . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender . 
Normal bowel sounds . 
No hepatosplenomegaly or masses . 
EXTREMITIES : Without edema . 
SKIN : 
Without rash , bruise , or petechiae . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : 
Without any deformities . 
LYMPH NODES : 
There is right cervical lymphadenopathy / fullness which is overall stable . 
No other sites of cervical , supraclavicular , axillary , or inguinal lymph nodes . 
NEUROLOGIC : 
Exam is grossly nonfocal . 
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES 
Laboratory studies include chemistries which are within normal limits . 
LDH is normal . 
LFTs are normal . 
White blood cell count 6.13 thousand , hematocrit 41 % , platelets 132 , 000 , neutrophils 3.31 thousand . 
RADIOGRAPHIC STUDIES CT scan of the neck , chest , abdomen , and pelvis shows patient to have stable disease compared to her last scan . 
IMPRESSION AND PLAN 1 . 
Follicular lymphoma . 
Patient has had minor response to ibrutinib , and remains progression - free . 
She is tolerating it well . 
I discussed options with her regarding staying on study or not . 
She would like to stay on study , and I think this is reasonable . 
We will continue on ibrutinib . 
2 . 
Alopecia , possibly related to ibrutinib , grade 1 , will follow . 
3 . 
Nail changes , possibly related to ibrutinib , will follow . 
4 . 
Easy bruisability , grade 1 , probably related to ibrutinib , will follow . 
5 . 
Subcutaneous nodule in right axilla resolved . 
Unrelated to ibrutinib . 
6 . 
Seasonal allergies . 
Will follow for now . 
This was a high - complexity visit as patient is on chemotherapy and being monitored for chemotherapy toxicities . 
Gratifyingly , she is doing overall rather well . 
