SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE EVERGREENHEALTH CLINIC NOTE SCCA EH CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFYING DATA 
The patient is a 63 - year - old woman accompanied by her son and one of her daughters . 
She was diagnosed with stage IV non - small cell lung cancer when she presented with a malignant pleural effusion and associated pleural studding on the left side . 
Pathological diagnosis was confirmed on January 9 , 2013 . 
Pathology was consistent with adenocarcinoma . 
The tumor is EGFR negative , ALK negative , and ROS negative , meaning there are no actionable mutations for the use of Tarceva or crizotinib . 
TREATMENT HISTORY March 13 , 2013 , Navelbine 25 mg / sq m because of poor performance status . 
Hospice De - enrollment in hopsice and chemotherapy with pemetrexed 400 mg / sq m on April 11 , 2013 . 
ALLERGIES CEFTIN , RASH . 
COMPAZINE , RASH . 
PENICILLIN , RASH . 
PROMETHAZINE , RASH . 
SULFA , RASH . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS MS Contin 30 mg p.o . 
twice daily . 
MS Contin 45 mg p.o . 
at bedtime . 
Morphine solution 10 mg per 5 mL 30 mg every hour as needed for pain . 
Guaifenesin 10 mL every 4 hours as needed for cough . 
Lorazepam 1 mg p.o . 
every 6 hours . 
Cymbalta 60 mg per day . 
Gabapentin 600 mg p.o . 
3 times a day . 
Hydroxyzine 25 mg p.o . twice daily . 
Synthroid 100 microgram per day . 
Methocarbamol 500 mg p.o . 
3 times a day . 
Docusate . 
Senna . 
Patient also thinks she has been taking insulin with meals . 
Tessalon Perles 100 mg p.o . 
three times daily as needed for cough PAST MEDICAL HISTORY Sarcoid diagnosed 12 years ago . 
Never been on steroids . 
Asthma / COPD . 
Obstructive sleep apnea . 
Not currently using CPAP . 
Migraines . 
Hypothyroidism . 
Hypertension . 
GERD . 
Recurrent sinusitis with multiple sinus surgeries . 
History of iron deficiency anemia actually requiring a PICC line for the IV administration of iron . 
SOCIAL HISTORY 
The patient was born in Minnesota . 
Worked for the government with tax issues . 
She has never personally smoked , but her father was a smoker . 
She does not have any significant alcohol or drug use . 
FAMILY HISTORY 
No family history of cancer except for her grandfather . 
Her father does not know history . 
Mother died at 51 of myocardial infarction . 
Brother died at 22 in a car accident . 
She has a brother 7 years younger who is alive , a sister who is 9 years younger , and a sister 2 - 1 / 2 years younger who are alive . 
The patient has a daughter born in 1969 , a son born in 1971 , a son born in 1973 and a daughter born in 1976 . 
INTERVAL HISTORY 
The patient is seen today in follow up for her lung cancer , assessment of her post chemotherapy toxicities , and for the new complaint of sinus discomfort . 
The patient 's families have all had colds , and they have passed a sinusitis around . 
She complains of frontal and maxillary sinus discomfort with " green snot . " 
She has had no fevers or chills , but she has a fair amount of discomfort with this . 
She has chronic problems with poor balance , chronic problems with anxiety and depression , chronic problems with a cough for which she requests a prescription . 
Codeine syrup she has been taking recently , but that makes her nauseous , so she has not been taking it . 
The Tessalon Perles have worked in the past . 
The patient also complains of constipation post chemotherapy and lightheadedness . 
She also had nausea for the first 2 days post chemotherapy . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS 
The remainder of the complete Review of Systems is negative . 
She specifically denies any fevers , chills , or night sweats . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature 36.9 . 
Heart rate 106 . 
Respiratory rate 16 . 
Blood pressure 111 / 69 . 
Pain is rated as a 7 / 10 with regard to sinusitis . 
Weight is 81.7 kg . 
GENERAL : The patient is in a wheelchair . 
HEENT : She has some mild frontal and maxillary sinus tenderness . 
Her pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light . 
Extraocular motions are full . 
Oropharynx is without erythema , erosions , or lesions . 
LYMPHATIC : There is no adenopathy in the submandibular , cervical , supraclavicular chains . 
LUNGS : The base to 2 / 3 of the left lung is dull . 
The right lung is largely clear except for crackles at the bases . 
There is a PleurX catheter in the left that needs home nursing care that has been ordered . 
LABS white count of 2800 , hematocrit 29.4 , and a platelet count of 187 . 
ANC is 1200 . 
IMPRESSION Non - small cell lung cancer , stage IV , as above . 
ECOG score 2 . 
She is markedly improved to where she was before treatement with Navelbine . 
I am not sure if this was related to Navelbine or to the most recent pemetrexed . 
Regardless , her laboratories today demonstrate that she is tolerating chemotherapy very well . 
They include a white count of 2800 , hematocrit 29.4 , and a platelet count of 187 . 
ANC is 1200 . 
We will monitor her counts again before starting her next cycle of chemotherapy . 
Depending upon her counts at that time , we may decide to escalate the dose of chemotherapy to 500 mg / sq m and , hopefully , as her performance status improves , we may consider dual therapy with carboplatin and pemetrexed . 
She continues to take her folic acid , and she will get B12 shots at least once every 9 weeks . 
I have also prescribed Tessalon Perles for her cough . 
If she develops fevers or chills , I have instructed her to come to the emergency room . 
I will see the patient again in followup in 2 weeks . 
For here sinus tenderness I have perscribe a Zpac for the indication of a clinical sinusitus . 
