SCCA MEDICAL ONCOLOGY IDENTIFICATION Jamie Gobel is a very nice 49 - year - old female with history of recurrent metastatic colorectal cancer and HNPCC ( MSH2 and MSH6 ) . 
She is status post complete resection of disease and systemic chemotherapy , followed by recent intraperitoneal recurrence of disease . 
She is seen today on day # 1 of systemic chemotherapy with capecitabine and irinotecan . . 
CURRENT TREATMENT 1 . 
Capecitabine 1000 mg / meter ( 2 ) 
PO twice daily , day # 1 through # 14 every 21 days . 
2 . 
Irinotecan 250 mg / meter ( 2 ) IV day # 1 , every 21 days . 
TREATMENT SUMMARY 
See my Clinic Note , dated October 18 , 2010 . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . Pantoprazole 40 mg PO once daily . 
2 . Ambien as needed for insomnia . 
3 . Clonazepam as needed for anxiety . 
4 . Vicodin as needed for pain . 
5 . 
Pepto - Bismol as needed for dyspepsia . 
6 . 
Vitamin D3 5 , 000 
Units daily . 7 . 
Calcium . 
8 . 
B100 complex . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Jamie is seen back today to start systemic chemotherapy . 
She has undergone PET staging for her recurrent / progressive colon cancer . 
She is feeling physically well in most respects but is anxious about the cancer recurrence and about the upcoming treatment . 
She describes somewhat persistent low back pain right above the sacrum and trouble sleeping due to anxiety , but no other problems . 
In particular , she denies fevers , chills , or sweats . 
She has no constitutional complaints . 
She denies anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , or constipation . 
Her ostomy is functioning normally . 
She has no skin rash or jaundice . 
ECOG performance status is 0 . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Blood pressure 110 / 62 , pulse 60 , respirations 16 , temperature 36.7 degrees Celsius , weight 57.5 mg . 
Remainder of the exam is deferred . 
LABS Laboratory data dated October 27 , 2010 : Glucose 108 , BUN 11 , creatinine 0.7 , calcium 9.4 , LDH 158 , AST 25 , ALT 24 , alkaline phosphatase 110 , bilirubin 0.4 , albumin 4 , white count 5.2 , hemoglobin 12.1 , hematocrit 37 % , platelets 175 , neutrophils 3.35 , lymphocytes 1.4 . 
CEA pending . 
PET - CT fusion study , completed October 26 , 2010 , compared to a PET - CT from September 2009 and from the current CT scan completed October 5 , 2010 . 
Findings as follows : There are peritoneal nodal metastases in the abdomen and pelvis , in the portacaval , periportal , pararenal , and mesenteric regions . 
There is a soft tissue mass in the left pericolic gutter , and lymph nodes in the bilateral iliac region . 
There is no PET positive disease outside of the peritoneal compartment . 
ASSESSMENT Jamie Gobel is a very nice 49 - year - old female with metastatic colon cancer and HNPCC . 
She has recently experienced disease progression in the peritoneal compartment . 
She has no extraabdominal disease , including no liver metastases , lung metastases , or bone metastases . 
She has an ECOG performance status of 0 and completely normal organ function . 
Ms Gobel is , I think , a good candidate for an aggressive strategy of therapy directed to the peritoneal compartment . 
In particular , peritoneal cytoreductive surgery combined with intraperitoneal heated chemotherapy . 
I have placed a referral to Dr. Gary Mann in Surgical Oncology at the University of Washington Medical Center to discuss this program . 
Surgery will probably be no earlier than mid November . 
I think it is appropriate to start systemic chemotherapy in the meantime . 
Jamie will receive a dose of irinotecan today , as well as a two week course of capecitabine , starting today . 
This may be her only cycle of preoperative chemotherapy , or , if surgery is delayed , we could administer another cycle . 
I have talked to Ms. Gobel about my strong consideration of following the intra - abdominal surgery with placement of a intraperitoneal port and administration of ongoing intraperitoneal chemotherapy , given the peritoneal - only localization of her disease . 
I talked to Jamie today about strategies for dealing with the uncertainty of cancer and the fears of chemotherapy and surgery and demise from cancer . 
I encouraged her to be strong and have a plan of action and take good care of herself physically and nutritionally . 
Jamie feels ready to begin the program . 
PLAN 1 . 
Chemotherapy teaching session with Deborah A . 
Leslie , RN , to follow my visit . 
They will be discussing the particular drugs employed in the CAPIRI regimen , and management of typical chemotherapy toxicities . 2 . 
Full supportive care . 
3 . Exercise , nutritional management , vitamin D and vitamin B supplements . 
TIME STATEMENT I spent 25 minutes of face - to - face time today with Ms Gobel ; more than half of the visit devoted to counseling , as described above . 
