SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE EVERGREENHEALTH CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFYING DATA 
The patient is a 76 - year - old with a diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma of the left lobe centrally located encompassing one of the pulmonary arteries in the descending thoracic aorta . 
The patient received her first cycle of consolidation chemotherapy on April 28 , 2014 with carboplatin , AUC 6 , and paclitaxel 200 mg / sq m and is here for a brief follow up visit to assess for chemotherapy toxicity . 
INTERVAL HISTORY 
The patient tolerated the therapy quite well . 
She complained of a few cold sweats and flushing of her face and chest for the first 24 hours post - chemotherapy . 
Her replaced knee on the left hurt a great deal for 3 to 4 days . 
She has now developed numbness in her fingers and toes . 
It is bilateral symmetrical and just at the tips . 
Surprisingly , she had very little nausea with the Aloxi . 
She did complain of fairly significant fatigue and constipation , some associated abdominal pain . 
She relates the nosebleeds are clearly related to chemotherapy since they came back just after she started despite a normal platelet count . 
She complained of shortness of breath with chemotherapy , but that has abated . 
She does , however , remain chronically short of breath . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature 36.4 , heart rate 85 , respirations 16 , blood pressure 138 / 74 , weight is 68.2 kg . 
GENERAL : Comfortable , in no distress . 
CHEST : Clear . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : Regular rate and rhythm . 
ABDOMEN : 
Soft , nontender , nondistended . 
Bowel tones present . 
LABORATORY DATA White count 4600 , hematocrit 27.6 , platelet count 155 , 000 . 
CMP from April 28 has been previously reviewed . 
IMPRESSION Non - small - cell lung cancer , stage IIIB , T4 N1 primary inoperable , primary tumor located left lower lobe . 
The patient is now on day 8 , cycle 1 , adjuvant carboplatin and paclitaxel . 
RECOMMEND Return to clinic in 14 days for repeat clinical assesment . 
At that time consider cycle # 2 . 
Her counts are adequate . 
This will depend upon what her counts are before we start . 
The patient has tolerated chemotherapy quite well . 
At this time , I do not see any indication for growth factor support . 
