Assessment Pt day 1 of 7 + 3 for Acute Leukemia . 
She also received 1 dose of HIDAC yesterday . 
Pt . presented to us with WBC 's of 278K . 
She also received leukopheresis . 
Current WBC 's are 30.57 . 
Pt received HD Daunorubicin last noc . 
Tolerated infusion well . 
Next chemo due at 2100 tonight . 
She is on CI Cytarabine . 
Her K is 3.2 . 
MD aware . 
No orders for replacement at this time as pt is at risk for hyperkalemia post chemo per MD . 
Pt on telemetry with sinus tach . 
She is on 2 L of O2 with sats of 98 - 100 % . 
She desats to 92 % when O2 is off . 
Her LD is elevated . 
She is on q 6 hr TLS labs . 
Pt is receiving IVF w / o bicarb . 
Team is aware per previous RN report . 
Pt had epistaxis last noc . 
Bleeding immediately controlled with cold wash cloth . 
She is also on her menses . 1 clot noted overnight . 
She was started on Medroxyprogesterone yesterday . 
Dr. Yang aware . 
Pt received RBC 's and plts this shift . 
Her hct and plt thresholds are 20 % and 20 K respectively . 
She is SBA to the BSC . 
Pt very weak . 
Educated about safety and has been calling appropriately . 
Pt has a very large supportive family at BS. 
They are asking appropriate questions . 
Educated about infection control . 
She had MRI done last noc . 
Please refer to radiology dictation for results . 
Pt 's neuro checks WNL although she failed finger to nose test . 
She is being ff by Opthalmology . 
She has 1 U PRBC and 1 bag of FFP in house that are good till 02 / 08 at MN . . 
Plan Reviewed Results : PLAN OF CARE Interventions / Outcomes ( Date Range : 02/07/2010 03:30 - 02/07/2010 03:30 ) . 
Evaluation Monitor for s / sx of tumor lysis . 
Monitor electrolyte levels , coags , CBC , and LD . 
Continue to provide support and education to both pt and family particularly about infection control and chemo toxicity . 
Monitor for s / sx of infection . 
Administer prophylactic meds as ordered . 
F/u with team regarding increasing hct threshold to unit standards as pt / s WBC counts starts trending down . 
Monitor for s / sx of increased bleeding . 
Administer AE as ordered . 
F/u with consult and team recommendation particularly with MRI results . . 
