SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Mr. Carter is a 69 - year - old man with resected stage IIIA squamous cell carcinoma of the lung . 
He is a prior smoker of 60 - pack - per - year history . 
PRIOR THERAPY The patient had a right pneumonectomy on December 21 , 2010 . 
CURRENT THERAPY 
The patient comes here today for his cycle 1 , day 8 cisplatin and gemcitabine . 
Therefore , the patient will only receive gemcitabine today . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Mr. Carter experienced severe nausea , but no vomiting during his first week of the first cycle of chemotherapy . 
Only yesterday he could eat a meaningful meal consisting of noodles . 
His wife estimates he was able to eat 1500 calories in the whole past one week . 
He lost 1 kg of weight . 
He also felt fatigued , but still ambulates and takes care of himself , and still has an ECOG performance status of 1 . 
The patient has complained of a right - sided lower rib cage discomfort , which he developed yesterday night and this morning . 
This is new to him . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Positive for nausea , anorexia , right - sided rib cage pain , shortness of breath , fatigue , and weight loss . 
Other systems of a complete review of systems were negative . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS As listed in the ORCA database . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
VITAL SIGNS : 
Temperature 36.5 , pulse 84 , respirations 16 , blood pressure 109 / 79 . 
GENERAL : The patient is alert and oriented in no acute distress and speaking in full sentences . 
NECK : Supple . 
No adenopathy . 
CHEST : Breath sounds are reduced in the lower right chest , but otherwise clear . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : 
No jugular venous distention . 
Regular rhythm and rate with normal S1 and S2 sounds . 
No gallops or murmurs . 
ABDOMEN : Bowel sounds are increased . 
His abdomen is soft and nontender to palpation with no organomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : No cyanosis , clubbing , or edema . 
MUSCULOSKELETAL : 
The patient has a tender palpable area in his right lower rib cage , corresponding to the tenth or eleventh right rib . 
LABORATORY DATA 
These are within normal limits and acceptable for treatment . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Mr. Carter had a difficult time last week with chemotherapy - induced nausea , but no vomiting . 
He also developed fatigue , and we believe that his right lower rib cage pain is just as a result of his chemotherapy toxicities and not feeling well . 
Despite that , the patient has a good performance status and acceptable counts . 
In addition , the patient is very motivated to moving forward with his treatment . 
We anticipate that for this week , the patient will not experience severe nausea , given that he we will receive only gemcitabine . 
We added Marinol to his antiemetic regimen at 2.5 mg twice daily to start with . 
We also encouraged the patient to eat high - calorie , high - protein - containing soft diets , such as shakes , split in several times a day . 
The patient will call us if he develops significant side effects after this dose of gemcitabine . 
Otherwise , we will see him in two weeks . 
