SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man , former smoker , with a history of upper lobe squamous cell carcinoma of the lung stage , stage IIIA . 
The patient presents for followup and anticipated cycle 2 of carboplatin and Taxol . 
CURRENT THERAPY The patient had completed cycle 1 of carboplatin and Taxol . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY None . 
INTERVAL HISTORY The patient presents to the clinic today for his scheduled chemotherapy infusion , as well as lab results review . 
The patient reports that his only symptom so far was fatigue following the first few days of infusion , however , these symptoms had improved , as well as joint pains in hips and knees also the first week following infusion . 
The patient states that his only symptoms were minor hiccups , heartburn , and very low - grade nausea . 
On day 1 , he used Compazine with a good response . 
Otherwise , the remainder of time he had no symptoms of nausea , chills , fevers , weight loss . 
He had no changes in his vision or hearing . 
The patient does have ongoing chronic symptoms of cough and exertional shortness of breath , however , these are stable with no progression . 
The patient denies chest pain , palpitations , fluid retention , abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting . 
He has no changes in bladder control , urinary frequency , or volume . 
He has no symptoms of dizziness , headaches , fainting , or falls . 
He has no changes in skin or fingernails . 
Denies cold or heat intolerance , bleeding or bruising tendencies . 
Denies symptoms of anxiety , depression , or insomnia . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS As noted above . 
Otherwise , complete review of systems is negative . 
PERFORMANCE STATUS The patient has an ECOG performance status of 1 . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS Scheduled Medications albuterol 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours ( albuterol CFC free 90 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol with adapter ) amlodipine 5 mg PO QDay dutasteride - tamsulosin 1 cap PO QDay ( Jalyn ) fluticasone - salmeterol 1 puff(s ) Inhalation BID ( Advair Diskus 250 mcg-50 mcg inhalation powder ) PRN Medications acetaminophen 1000 mg PO PRN ( up to once a day ) ( Tylenol Extra Strength 500 mg oral tablet ) acetaminophen - hydrocodone 1 tab PO Q4 Hours PRN ( for pain ) ( Vicodin 5 mg-500 mg oral tablet ) albuterol - ipratropium 1 - 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( . ) ( Combivent ) ipratropium 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours PRN ( dyspnea ) ( ipratropium CFC free 17 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol ) prochlorperazine 10 mg PO QDay PRN ( for nausea ) ( Compazine 10 mg oral tablet ) PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.9 , heart rate 92 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 136/72 . 
Weight 108.5 kg compared to 107.9 kg recorded on January 27 , 2012 . 
GENERAL : This is a well - nourished , well - developed male in no acute distress . 
He is breathing comfortably on room air . 
He is alert and oriented times three and is accompanied by his wife . 
HEENT : Head is normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Sclerae anicteric , noninjected . 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive to light . 
Extraocular movements intact . 
Oropharynx is moist without lesions or thrush . 
NECK : Supple without any supraclavicular or cervical lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Decreased in pattern of COPD . 
Patient has pronounced crackles on left lower lung exam . 
Right lung with reduced breath sounds , but clear . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
S1 and S2 throughout . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended . 
Normoactive bowel tones in all quadrants . 
EXTREMITIES : 
No peripheral edema , cyanosis , or clubbing . 
SKIN EXAM : Skin is well - perfused , warm and dry . 
No rashes or lesions . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
The patient is moving all extremities and ambulates without difficulty . 
Sensation is intact . 
MOOD AND AFFECT : 
The patient is pleasant and interactive . 
He is neatly groomed . 
LABORATORY DATA Metabolic data : Sodium 138 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 103 , CO2 30 , glucose level 172 , BUN 22 , creatinine 1.34 , calcium 9.5 , magnesium 2.1 , phosphate 2.5 . 
Liver studies remarkable for AST of 13 . 
The remainder is completely normal . 
CBC : WBC 8.16 , RBC 4.39 , hemoglobin 13.3 , hematocrit 40 , platelets 223,000 , neutrophil count 5.69 . 
RADIOLOGICAL DATA Chest x - ray is remarkable for left upper lobe cavitary lesion , which is unchanged in size and appearance . 
The lung volume is increased consistent with COPD . 
There are no pleural effusions or pneumothorax . 
Heart size is normal and unchanged . 
There is a calcification of the aortic arch , indicating atherosclerosis . IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male with a history of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
The patient is scheduled to see Dr. Patel at Radiation Oncology and the patient already had a simulation visit for the radiation . 
The patient is here today for initiation of his cycle 2 of carboplatin and Taxol therapy . 
The patient will return to our clinic as scheduled per protocol for his next anticipated cycle . 
In addition , we are scheduling a CT of the chest with no contrast to be performed in approximately 2 - 1/2 weeks ' time prior to the patient 's initiation of radiation therapy . 
Referral for a PICC line placement completed . 
This is a shared Medical Oncology visit with Dr. Laura Chow . 
Please refer to her addendum for greater detail , clarification , and clinical reasoning related to this patient 's care plan . 
TIME STATEMENT I have spent 25 minutes with this patient , greater than 50% of which were dedicated to counseling and coordination of care . 