SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE OUTPATIENT REPORT MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male with a history of inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
Patient is a former smoker . 
CURRENT THERAPY Patient is initiating weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel with concurrent radiation . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY Patient received 2 cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel as induction therapy . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Patient presents to the clinic today to start his new weekly therapy . 
Patient states that he is doing really well . 
He has no pronounced side effects . 
Patient denies any symptoms of pain , changes in weight , anorexia , fevers , difficulty swallowing or choking . 
Patient states that he his ongoing cough is stable with no progression . 
He has no changes in vision or hearing . 
No symptoms of neuropathy . 
No symptoms of chest pain , chest pressure , palpitations , fluid retention , abdominal pain , constipation , nausea or vomiting . 
Patient has normal bladder control , frequency and volume . 
He has no symptoms of dizziness , fainting , falls or joint pain . 
No changes in skin or nails . 
Patient denies environmental allergies , bleeding / bruising tendencies , cold or heat intolerance . 
Patient has no symptoms of anxiety , depression or insomnia . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS As noted above . 
Otherwise complete review of systems is negative . 
Patient 's ECOG performance status is 0 . 
MEDICATIONS 
Scheduled Medications albuterol 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours ( albuterol CFC free 90 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol with adapter ) amlodipine 5 mg PO QDay ciprofloxacin 500 mg PO Q12 Hours ( ciprofloxacin 500 mg oral tablet ) dutasteride - tamsulosin 1 cap PO QDay ( Jalyn ) fluticasone - salmeterol 1 puff(s ) Inhalation BID ( Advair Diskus 250 mcg-50 mcg inhalation powder ) PRN Medications acetaminophen 1000 mg PO PRN ( up to once a day ) ( Tylenol Extra Strength 500 mg oral tablet ) acetaminophen - hydrocodone 1 tab PO Q4 Hours PRN ( for pain ) ( Vicodin 5 mg-500 mg oral tablet ) albuterol - ipratropium 1 - 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( . )
( Combivent ) ipratropium 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours PRN ( dyspnea ) ( ipratropium CFC free 17 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol ) prochlorperazine 10 mg PO QDay PRN ( for nausea ) ( Compazine 10 mg oral tablet ) ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG - RELATED ALLERGIES . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36 , pulse 92 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 122/76 , weight 109.5 kg . 
GENERAL : Patient is a well - nourished well - developed male in no acute distress , breathing comfortably on room air . 
He is alert and oriented times 3 and is accompanied by his wife . 
HEENT : Head normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Anicteric sclerae , noninjected . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light . 
Oropharynx is moist and clear without evidence of thrush or lesions . 
NECK : Supple . 
No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Decreased breath tones in a COPD pattern . 
Clear to auscultation otherwise . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
S1 and S2 throughout . 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended . 
Normoactive bowel tones in all quadrants . 
No CVA tenderness . 
EXTREMITIES : 
No peripheral edema , clubbing , or cyanosis . 
SKIN : Skin is warm and dry , well perfused . 
No rashes or lesions . 
NEUROLOGIC : Exam grossly nonfocal . 
Patient ambulates with no difficulties . 
His sensation is intact . 
MOOD / AFFECT : Patient is pleasant and interactive . 
He is neatly groomed . 
LABORATORY DATA Metabolic panel : Sodium 137 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 102 , CO2 of 27 , glucose level 132 , BUN 16 , creatinine 1.27 . 
LDH 139 . 
Absolutely normal liver function panel . 
CBC : WBC 6.62 , RBC 4.27 , hemoglobin 12.8 , hematocrit 39 , platelets 172,000 , neutrophils 4.24 . ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male with a history of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
Patient is currently undergoing chemoradiation therapy , and today he presents for initiation of a weekly cycle of carboplatin and paclitaxel . We will proceed with chemotherapy order as scheduled since patient is hematologically stable , and his ECOG performance status is unchanged . 
In addition , the patient states that he completed a course of ciprofloxacin , and he did not have any recurrent symptoms of dysuria or hematuria . 
Patient 's only question at this time is a necessity of the number of the venipuncture that is performed at the lab and later at the infusion room .
Patient previously declined PICC line placement based on the fact that it would affect his ability to play golf .
I have deferred this question to the physician . 
This is a shared medical oncology visit with Dr. Bernardo Goulart . 
Please refer to his addendum for greater clarification , detail and clinical reasoning related to this patient 's treatment plan . 
Otherwise we will see the patient in a week 's time for his next scheduled chemotherapy dose . 
He should not hesitate to contact the medical care team if he has any worsening or new symptoms or has questions . 
TIME STATEMENT I have spent 20 face - to - face minutes with this patient , greater than 50% of which were spent in counseling and coordination of care . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM I saw and examined the patient on this date . 
This note reflects the jointly formulated plan that I and Yelena Brukhis , PA - C , formulated for this patient . 
Briefly , Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man with a stage III - A squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , receiving now concurrent chemoradiation with weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel . 
Before that , he underwent two cycles of induction chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel every three weeks . 
He tolerated that well with no meaningful peripheral neuropathy , nausea , vomiting , or episodes of fever or low blood counts . 
He starts radiation today , and today his first weekly cycle of carboplatin and paclitaxel at doses of AUC of 2 and paclitaxel at 40 mg / m(2 ) . 
The patient has an ECOG performance status of zero ( 0 ) . 
He complains about the necessity of peripheral vein poking for blood draws and infusion of chemotherapy at different times , and we explained to him that this really depends on the nursing schedule . 
He declines a PICC line at this point , because he wants to keep playing golf and the PICC line would prevent him from having a golf swing . 
I also reasoned with him that a port catheter placement would be a way to address the number of weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel doses that he would receive through the port if this is placed . 
Therefore , he accepts to continue on the chemotherapy with peripheral venous access . 
We will see the patient again in one week 's time for his week 2 of carboplatin and paclitaxel . 
He requests no medication refills today . 
TIME STATEMENT : I spent 10 minutes with Mr. Smith in a face - to - face interaction , for a total shared time of 30 minutes , more than 50% of which were devoted to counseling and coordination of care . 