SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old man , former smoker , with a history of upper lobe squamous cell carcinoma of the lung stage , stage IIIA . 
The patient presents for followup and anticipated cycle 2 of carboplatin and Taxol . 
CURRENT THERAPY The patient had completed cycle 1 of carboplatin and Taxol . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY None . 
INTERVAL HISTORY The patient presents to the clinic today for his scheduled chemotherapy infusion , as well as lab results review . 
The patient reports that his only symptom so far was fatigue following the first few days of infusion , however , these symptoms had improved , as well as joint pains in hips and knees also the first week following infusion . 
The patient states that his only symptoms were minor hiccups , heartburn , and very low - grade nausea . 
On day 1 , he used Compazine with a good response . 
Otherwise , the remainder of time he had no symptoms of nausea , chills , fevers , weight loss . 
He had no changes in his vision or hearing . 
The patient does have ongoing chronic symptoms of cough and exertional shortness of breath , however , these are stable with no progression . 
The patient denies chest pain , palpitations , fluid retention , abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting . 
He has no changes in bladder control , urinary frequency , or volume . 
He has no symptoms of dizziness , headaches , fainting , or falls . 
He has no changes in skin or fingernails . 
Denies cold or heat intolerance , bleeding or bruising tendencies . 
Denies symptoms of anxiety , depression , or insomnia . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS As noted above . 
Otherwise , complete review of systems is negative . 
PERFORMANCE STATUS The patient has an ECOG performance status of 1 . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS Scheduled Medications albuterol 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours ( albuterol CFC free 90 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol with adapter ) amlodipine 5 mg PO QDay dutasteride - tamsulosin 1 cap PO QDay ( Jalyn ) fluticasone - salmeterol 1 puff(s ) Inhalation BID ( Advair Diskus 250 mcg-50 mcg inhalation powder ) PRN Medications acetaminophen 1000 mg PO PRN ( up to once a day ) ( Tylenol Extra Strength 500 mg oral tablet ) acetaminophen - hydrocodone 1 tab PO Q4 Hours PRN ( for pain ) ( Vicodin 5 mg-500 mg oral tablet ) albuterol - ipratropium 1 - 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( . ) ( Combivent ) ipratropium 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours PRN ( dyspnea ) ( ipratropium CFC free 17 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol ) prochlorperazine 10 mg PO QDay PRN ( for nausea ) ( Compazine 10 mg oral tablet ) PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.9 , heart rate 92 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 136/72 . 
Weight 108.5 kg compared to 107.9 kg recorded on January 27 , 2012 . 
GENERAL : This is a well - nourished , well - developed male in no acute distress . 
He is breathing comfortably on room air . 
He is alert and oriented times three and is accompanied by his wife . 
HEENT : Head is normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Sclerae anicteric , noninjected . 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive to light . 
Extraocular movements intact . 
Oropharynx is moist without lesions or thrush . 
NECK : Supple without any supraclavicular or cervical lymphadenopathy . 
LUNGS : Decreased in pattern of COPD . 
Patient has pronounced crackles on left lower lung exam . 
Right lung with reduced breath sounds , but clear . 
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . 
S1 and S2 throughout . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended . 
Normoactive bowel tones in all quadrants . 
EXTREMITIES : 
No peripheral edema , cyanosis , or clubbing . 
SKIN EXAM : Skin is well - perfused , warm and dry . 
No rashes or lesions . 
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal . 
The patient is moving all extremities and ambulates without difficulty . 
Sensation is intact . 
MOOD AND AFFECT : 
The patient is pleasant and interactive . 
He is neatly groomed . 
LABORATORY DATA Metabolic data : Sodium 138 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 103 , CO2 30 , glucose level 172 , BUN 22 , creatinine 1.34 , calcium 9.5 , magnesium 2.1 , phosphate 2.5 . 
Liver studies remarkable for AST of 13 . 
The remainder is completely normal . 
CBC : WBC 8.16 , RBC 4.39 , hemoglobin 13.3 , hematocrit 40 , platelets 223,000 , neutrophil count 5.69 . 
RADIOLOGICAL DATA Chest x - ray is remarkable for left upper lobe cavitary lesion , which is unchanged in size and appearance . 
The lung volume is increased consistent with COPD . 
There are no pleural effusions or pneumothorax . 
Heart size is normal and unchanged . 
There is a calcification of the aortic arch , indicating atherosclerosis . IMPRESSION AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male with a history of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
The patient is scheduled to see Dr. Patel at Radiation Oncology and the patient already had a simulation visit for the radiation . 
The patient is here today for initiation of his cycle 2 of carboplatin and Taxol therapy . 
The patient will return to our clinic as scheduled per protocol for his next anticipated cycle . 
In addition , we are scheduling a CT of the chest with no contrast to be performed in approximately 2 - 1/2 weeks ' time prior to the patient 's initiation of radiation therapy . 
Referral for a PICC line placement completed . 
This is a shared Medical Oncology visit with Dr. Laura Chow . 
Please refer to her addendum for greater detail , clarification , and clinical reasoning related to this patient 's care plan . 
TIME STATEMENT I have spent 25 minutes with this patient , greater than 50% of which were dedicated to counseling and coordination of care . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM BY LAURA QUAN MAN CHOW , MD , ON FEBRUARY 09 , 2012 SCCA MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE Mr. Bruce Smith is a man with squamous cell carcinoma with a cavitating lesion . 
He has coexisting comorbidities of severe COPD , poor lung reserve , and inability to have surgical resection of the lung , and similarly he has a solitary kidney due to a previous history of a renal cell carcinoma . 
He is an ex - smoker and has been diagnosed to have stage IIIA of the left lobe squamous cell carcinoma . 
He has completed 1 cycle of Taxol and carboplatin , and he is here for another cycle of therapy . 
Mr. Smith has had some achiness in his joints and knees and mostly all over after taking his chemotherapy . 
Otherwise , he tolerated this well . 
He had no numbness or tingling . 
He had some minor fatigue , and his performance status still remains fairly good , with an ECOG of 1 . 
He did have some transient increase in shortness of breath for a few days after the chemotherapy , but this has returned back to his baseline . 
He is not particularly short of breath but would like to have a refill of his Combivent , though there are some issues with his insurance filling this in time , and he felt that he used his Combivent puffer so much during the first few days of chemotherapy that he has used this all up and he has another 10 days before he is allowed another prescription . 
I suggested we consider separating out the albuterol and the Atrovent and see if this would be somewhat less expensive if he needed to pay out - of - pocket rather than as a combination . 
Mr. Smith also has gained some weight . 
He has had no major toxicities and is motivated to continue . 
I reviewed his chest x - rays and CT scans with him . 
The mediastinal lymph nodes look better , and overall the tumor mass when looking at his CT simulation and his chest x - rays compared to his baseline looks to be relatively stable , with some minor decrease in the rim around the tumor . 
Mr. Smith is at a high risk of infection . 
Therefore , he will receive another cycle G - CSF . 
I have written orders today for 180 mg / m(2 ) of Taxol , and carboplatin will be AUC of 5 . 
His creatinine is slightly elevated , but his blood counts were adequate to proceed with therapy . 
Mr. Smith will proceed with treatment today , and he will be seen back in 2 - 1/2 to 2 weeks time with a repeat scan . 
We will plan to do low - dose Taxol at 50 mg / m(2 ) weekly in conjunction with carboplatin AUC of 2 during his chemoradiation . 
I saw and assessed Mr. Bruce Smith . 
We did have a large discussion regarding the fact that he has looked into second opinions in regards to possible proton therapy in Houston , Texas , as well as also has been questioning whether he truly can not receive surgery . 
We discussed some of these issues and also some the anxieties he has been experiencing , and I said that he should try to seek as many second opinions as would make him feel comfortable , as the most important thing is for him to be comfortable with care . 
He overall indicates he is comfortable with his care but just very fearful overall of the side effects of treatment and particularly that of the radiation . 
This seems to be very reasonable . 
I have asked him to readdress his concerns with Dr. Patel , but at this time he is very motivated to proceed with chemotherapy and understands that we will proceed with chemoradiation after this cycle is completed . 
I saw and assessed Mr. Smith today in a face - to - face interaction . 
His prescriptions are refilled , his lab work was looked at , and overall he looks stable . 
We will plan to have imaging at his next visit . 
His saturations are above 94% when walking around the clinic , and he did not look to be using accessory muscles or to have any wheezing on examination . 
He looks clinically stable . 
I saw and assessed him today in a face - to - face interaction . 
I spent 20 minutes with him . 
The majority of my time involved counseling and coordination of care and was in addition to the time spent by Yelena Brukhis . 