ED Note Physicians Present The following resident(s ) participated in the care and documentation of this patient : Sutton , MD , Jared A. Visit Information Arrival Mode : POV . 
Patient Source Location Patient 's own home . 
ID / CC 64 yo m w painless hematuria since today History of Present Illness Pt is a 64 yo m w hx of left sided renal cell carcinoma with nephrectomy and recent ( sept 2011 ) diagnosis of small cell carcinoma of the lung .
He was considered a poor candidate for surgery and has been started on chemotherapy ( carboplatin and Taxol ) for the SCC . 
Pt says he is currently on day 9 of a 10 day course of this medication , has noted some weakness but otherwise ROS negative , no fevers , chills , NVD , abdominal pain or changes in bowel movements .
Pt has noted blood in the urine grossly x 3 today out of the 5 - 6 times he has urinated .
He denies any pain with urination although some slight burning if any symptom at all .
No low back pain .
Pt has no history of kidney stones .
No recent radiation therapy .
Not on coumadin , lovenox , or other anticoagulation . 
Past Medical History Renal Cell Carcinoma with Left sided nephrectomy Small Cell Carcinoma of lung currently on Carboplatin and Taxol COPD with poor pulmonary function Heart murmur History of Tobacco Abuse HTN Problem List No Problems Found . 
See above Medications Scheduled Medications albuterol 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours ( albuterol CFC free 90 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol with adapter ) amlodipine 5 mg PO QDay dutasteride - tamsulosin 1 cap PO QDay ( Jalyn ) fluticasone - salmeterol 1 puff(s ) Inhalation BID ( Advair Diskus 250 mcg-50 mcg inhalation powder ) PRN Medications acetaminophen 1000 mg PO PRN ( up to once a day ) ( Tylenol Extra Strength 500 mg oral tablet ) acetaminophen - hydrocodone 1 tab PO Q4 Hours PRN ( for pain ) ( Vicodin 5 mg-500 mg oral tablet ) albuterol - ipratropium 1 - 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( . )
( Combivent ) ipratropium 2 puff(s ) Inhalation Q4 Hours PRN ( dyspnea ) ( ipratropium CFC free 17 mcg / inh inhalation aerosol ) prochlorperazine 10 mg PO QDay PRN ( for nausea ) ( Compazine 10 mg oral tablet ) Allergies NKA Family History Family history of current condition is non - contributory Social History Residence : Private residence . 
Tobacco use : Quit 1 year(s ) ago . 
Alcohol use : Denies . 
Drug use : Denies . 
Review of Systems Constitutional : Weakness . 
Eye : . 
ENMT : Denies symptoms . 
Respiratory : Denies symptoms . 
Cardiovascular : Denies symptoms . 
Gastrointestinal : Denies symptoms . 
Genitourinary : See HPI . 
Hematuria . 
Neurologic : Denies symptoms . 
Musculoskeletal : Denies symptoms . 
Heme / Lymph : Denies symptoms . 
Physical Examination Constitutional : Well developed / well nourished . 
Vital Signs : ED Sheet . 
02/18/2012 15:13 Temperature - C 36.5 degC 
Temperature Source Temporal Artery Heart Rate 89 bpm Respiratory Rate 16 br / min SBP - Noninvasive 142 mmHg High DBP - Noninvasive 79 mmHg BP Method Automatic BP Extremity RIGHT SpO2 98 % O2 Delivery Device Room air Mode of Arrival to Emergency Dept Car Health History in Emergency Dept COPD ,
Other : lung ca Pain Symptoms in Emergency Dept No Chief Complaint hx lung ca , blood in urine today and burning yesterday Home Medications chemo ESI Level 1 No ESI Level 2 No Vital Signs ESI Does not meet defined danger zone limits Resources ESI Many Recommended ESI Level 3 Tracking Acuity 3 Urgent HENT : Oropharynx clear . 
Normocephalic / atraumatic . 
Eyes : Pupils equal round reactive to light , extraocular movements intact . 
Normal conjuctiva . 
Normal sclera . 
Cardiovascular : Pulses intact and symmetric . 
Pt has 3/6 holosystolic murmur best heard near the left sternal border and apex of the heart .
No rubs or gallops .
Trace peripheral edema .. 
Respiratory / Chest : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . 
Chest wall nontender to palpatation . 
Normal respiratory effort . 
No rales / wheezes / rhonchi . 
Gastrointestinal : Soft . 
Abdomen non - tender . 
Abdomen non - distended . 
No masses / organomegaly . 
Musculoskeletal : Normal strength , tone and range of motion . 
Genitourinary : Small 3 mm laceration on the head of the penis to the right of the meatus , well healed no bleeding or oozing from area .. Neurologic : No focal deficits . 
Alert and oriented to person , place , and time . 
Skin : No rash , bruises or ulcers . 
Lymphatic No lymphadenopathy . 
Results Review Results Laboratory . 
02/18/2012 17:00 Na 138 mEq / L K 3.9 mEq / L Cl 103 mEq / L CO2 25 mEq / L Anion Gap 10 Glucose Level 140 mg / dL High BUN 13 mg / dL Creatinine 1.21 mg / dL High GFR , Calculated , African American > 60 mL / min GFR , Calculated , European American > 60 mL / min GFR , Additional
Information Calculated GFR in mL / min/1.73 m2 by MDRD equation .
Fairly accurate in outpatients in chronic kidney disease .
May underestimate in others .
Inaccurate with changing renal function .
See http://depts.washington.edu/labweb/test/bclim/cGFR.html Ca 9.3 mg / dL CK ( Total ) 83 units / L WBC 13.03 thousand / microL High RBC 4.13 million / microL Low Hb 12.3 g / dL Low HCT 37 % 
Low MCV 89 fL MCH 29.8 pg MCHC 33.4 g / dL PLT 107 thousand / microL Low RDW - CV 14.8 % High % Neutrophils In Progress % ( In Progress ) % Lymphocytes In Progress % 
( In Progress ) % Monocytes In Progress % ( In Progress ) % Eosinophils In Progress % 
( In Progress ) % Basophils In Progress % ( In Progress ) % Immature Granulocytes In Progress % ( In Progress ) Neutrophils In Progress thousand / microL ( In Progress ) Lymphocytes In Progress thousand / microL ( In Progress ) Monocytes In Progress thousand / microL ( In Progress ) Eosinophils In Progress thousand / microL ( In Progress ) Basophils In Progress thousand / microL ( In Progress ) Immature Granulocytes In Progress thousand / microL ( In Progress ) Prothrombin Time Patient 12.9 sec Prothrombin Time INR 1.0 PTT Patient 29 sec PTT X - Mean To calculate the PTT X Mean divide PTT value by 29 . 02/18/2012 15:25 Color , URN Yellow Clarity , URN Clear Specific Gravity , URN 1.005 g / mL pH , URN 5.5 Protein ( Albumin Semi - Quant ) , URN Negative mg / dL Glucose Qual , URN Negative mg / dL Ketones , URN Negative mg / dL Bilirubin Qual , URN Negative Occult Blood , URN Large(3 + ) Nitrite , URN Negative Leukocyte Esterase , URN Negative Urobilinogen , URN 0.1 - 1.9 Ehrlich units Comments for Macroscopic , URN None WBC , URN 0 - 5(NEG ) /HPF 
RBC , URN 0 - 2(NEG ) /HPF 
Epith .
Cells , Squamous , URN >
5(PRESENT ) /LPF Epith .
Cells , Renal / Transitional , URN < 3(NEG ) /HPF 
Bacteria , URN Not Seen Comments for Microscopic , URN None Urine C and S w / Gram In Progress ( In Progress ) Radiological Studies Radiology Results . 
ED Course & Medical Decision Making 64 yo m w Small cell carcinoma of the lung on chemotherapy with history of left sided nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma here with hematuria since today .
Pt is normotensive on exam and does not appear to be grossly anemic .
Ordered baseline CBC / CMP / hepatic function / coags to ensure pt was not anemic , in renal failure , or having a coagulopathy secondary to hepatic insufficiency . 
Pt was otherwise well appearing in no pain and did not request any analgesia though I did offer it .
His urine showed large blood but no RBC which is indicative of myoglobuinuria .
my concern was perhaps his chemo was causing Rhabdo , but neither carboplatin nor Taxol have this listed as a side effect . 
Without any RBC 's seen on the UA this can not be because of bleeding , and his labs were stable as well too and he was normotensive here . 
there was no evidence of AKI , in fact his creatinine was better than prior .
WBC count slightly elevated but he has run in the 14s in the past and has been on and off steroids .
Given the fact that he is asymptomatic and is on chemo this WBC level is really non - specific . 
His coags and LFTs were unremarkable . 
The UA looks more like myoglobin than blood , but will have him f / u at SCCA or return to the ER tomorrow or monday for CBC draw to ensure this is not blood .
This plan was agreed upon after discussion with Oncology service by me .
The laceration on his penis was closed and does not appear to be the source .
No evidence of other trauma .
Pt was well appearing and left in great condition . 
ED Consults Oncology Disposition / Plan Final disposition Discharge . Impression / Diagnosis Hematuria Small penile laceration , hemostatic Small cell carcinoma on chemotherapy , carboplatin and Taxol History of left renal cell carcinoma with nephrectomy Signature Jared A. Sutton , M.D. I have personally examined this patient and discussed the history , clinical exam , diagnostic studies , and treatment plan with the resident .
Where necessary , for the purpose of clarification or accuracy , I have added to or modified the above note directly or with additional comments below .
I concur with the documentation as presented . 
Dave Lu EM
Attending Physician 