THORACIC SURGERY NEW PATIENT NOTE DATE OF SERVICE November 28 , 2011 IDENTIFICATION / HISTORY The above - mentioned 64-year - old gentleman was referred to the Thoracic Surgery Clinic for definitive management of his cavitating left upper lobe lesion . 
PRESENTING PROBLEMS Ms. Smith presented three months ago with intermittent hemoptysis for which she was investigated by means of chest x - ray , CT , PET - CT , and PFTs . 
His chest CT identified a cavitary lesion in the left upper lobe with increased thickness of the wall , increased nodularity and spiculation , measuring 3.1 cm x 2.2 cm . 
He is also demonstrated to have a left AP node , which measured 1.5 cm . 
PET - CT confirmed these as having high FDG avidity with the left upper lobe demonstrating intense peripheral uptake with an SUV max of 9.3 , while the AP lymph node ( station 5 ) had an uptake of 8.5 , raising the suspicion of being an N-2 lymph node . 
His PFTs performed on October 6 , 2011 , identified an FEV 1 of 1.2 ( 38% predicted ) and her DLCO was not calculated at that point in time . 
He presents today for definitive management of the same having described intermittent hemoptysis with a decreased exercise tolerance , and mild to moderate exertion . 
Incidentally , he also had echocardiography , which was precipitated by calcification of his aortic valve seen on CT scan . 
This identified an increased gradient across the aortic valve measured at a peak of 60 mmHg . 
This raised the possibility of a bicuspid valve and a preserved ejection fraction of 70% . 
His valve area was not calculated , but the description rendered was that this was mild to severe aortic stenosis . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . 
His Past Medical History is notable for COPD , having an excess of a 60-pack - year smoking load and having quit smoking ten months ago . 2 . 
He also has a background history of atrioseptal hypertension . 
3 . 
Benign prostatic hypertrophy . 4 . 
Renal cell cancer , having undergone a left - sided nephrectomy , and having a baseline creatinine of 1.6 . 
5 . 
Multiple disc herniations . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . Appendectomy . 2 . 
Repeated admissions for small - bowel obstruction , four times in the past 18 months , each of which was treated conservatively . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Lisinopril as needed . 2
. Tylenol as needed . 
3 . 
Albuterol 2.5 mg/3 mL every 4 hours as needed . 4 . 
Combivent as needed . 5 . 
Jalyn 1 capsule PO daily . 
6 . 
Flomax 1 capsule PO daily . 7 . 
Advair 1 puff twice daily . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
SOCIAL HISTORY A retired groundsman , works on lawns . 
A 50-pack - year smoking load . 
Moderate alcohol intake . 
Presents today in the presence of his spouse and his son . 
FAMILY HISTORY Notable for coronary artery disease , having had his father die of a myocardial infarction . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS RESPIRATORY : Cough and hemoptysis as present in the presenting complaint . 
CARDIOVASCULAR : Shortness of breath , decreased exercise tolerance , as mentioned in the presenting complaint . 
RENAL : As mentioned in presenting complaint . 
Previous nephrectomy but without nocturia , hematuria , or dysuria . 
GASTROINTESTINAL : No jaundice , no icterus , normal appetite . 
No nausea , no vomiting , no bowel movements . 
NEUROLOGICAL : No headaches , no loss of vision . 
No change in taste , smell , or hearing . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION GENERAL : He is an obese male who looks older than his stated age . 
Weight is 238 pounds ( 108 kg , blood pressure 131/73 , heart rate 82 , temperature 98.7 , saturations 93% on room air . 
He has an audible wheeze . 
In general , he was in a well - nourished state . 
CHEST : Rhonchorous to auscultation . 
HEART : Heart sounds 1 and 2 are present . 
Systolic murmur . 
No rubs , no gallops , no clicks , and no cervical adenopathy , in general . 
EXTREMITIES : Showed no clubbing , cyanosis , edema or deformity . 
SKIN : Was without lesions or rashes . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN This 64-year - old gentleman presents with a left upper lobe cavitating lesion with increased FDG avidity in both the lesion and station 5 lymph node , thus presenting at least a clinical suspicion of clinical stage IIIA disease with T2 N2 disease but without histological diagnosis . 
He also presents with a likelihood of moderate to severe aortic stenosis , which has not been completely quantified and for which we have requested an aortic valve area and their re - visit to most accurately assess his operative candidacy . 
We intend to obtain this over the next week , together with a quantitative perfusion scan to assess the contribution of each lung to his lung function , and formal PFTs , in addition , to reformatting his CT that was performed on the November 22 , 2011 , to allow for navigational bronchoscopy ( 0.625 mm slices ) . 
I have conveyed this latter request to the Radiology Department , and have filled out the documentation for quantitative perfusion scan , repeat PFTs , and a re - consult to Cardiology to quantify the aortic valve stenosis . 
Following this , we intend to see him back in the clinic next week when we shall re - evaluate him in the context of those results , and plan to perform flexible navigational bronchoscopy , biopsy of his FDG avid nodes and/or perform a Chamberlain procedure . 
The feasibility of performing these procedures will be determined by the results that we obtain ( echo , AVA , quantitative perfusion scan ) to determine his candidacy for an operation , as this would require a left upper lobectomy , due to its central position , and at initial glance , he appears unlikely to be a suitable operative candidate . 