SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE OUTPATIENT REPORT MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION Mr. Smith is a 65-year - old male , former smoker with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , stage IIIA . 
He is status post definitive chemoradiation therapy . 
He is here for followup visit . 
CURRENT THERAPY None . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY 1 . 
The patient received 2 cycles of full - dose carboplatin and paclitaxel with AUC5 and 175 mg / m(2 ) on January 19 and February 9 , 2012 , to decrease the radiation field at induction therapy . 2 . 
Weekly carboplatin and Taxol from March 5 , 2012 , to April 16 , 2012 , in conjunction with radiation therapy . 
His last dose of carboplatin was held because of thrombocytopenia . 
OTHER COMORBIDITIES 1 . Ex - smoker . 2 . 
Moderate to severe aortic stenosis . 3 . 
Renal dysfunction and insufficiency due to 1 kidney because of history of renal cell carcinoma , status post nephrectomy . 
4 . 
Severe COPD . 5 . 
Recurrent small bowel obstruction INTERVAL HISTORY Since last seen about a month ago , Mr. Smith has been doing about the same in terms of his lung symptoms . 
He continued to have chronic cough with phlegm but no fevers . 
He felt his shortness of breath has been slightly improved with change of his inhaled fluconazole about a month ago , but he still can only walk about a city block without any shortness of breath . 
He continued to be bothered by recurrent small bowel obstruction . 
The last occurrence was about 3 weeks ago . 
He spent 2 days in the hospital with NG tube inserted and then he recovered from that . 
He is scheduled to see Dr. Patel with a CT scan on June 25 , 2012 . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS Complete review of systems was reviewed with the patient . 
ECOG status 2 . 
Denies any current pain . 
Complains of recurrent small bowel obstruction , dyspnea on exertion , chronic coughing . 
Rest of his review of systems was negative . 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Combivent . 2 . 
Norvasc 5 mg PO daily . 3 . 
Guaifenesin as needed . 4 . 
Jalyn 1 tablet PO daily . 5 . 
Fluticasone inhaler 220 micrograms inhaled twice a day . 
6 . 
Salmeterol inhaler . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 37 , heart rate 96 , respiratory rate 18 , blood pressure 118/70 , pain is 0/10 . 
Weight is 105 kg . 
Saturation 94% on room air . 
GENERAL APPEARANCE : In no acute distress . 
Seen with supportive wife . 
HEENT : Normocephalic , atraumatic . 
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation . 
Extraocular movements intact . 
Pharynx is without lesions , and the palate elevates in the midline . 
NECK : Supple and free of thyromegaly or jugular venous distention . 
CHEST : Decreased breath sounds at bilateral lungs , particularly on the right side . 
CARDIAC : Late peak systolic murmur aortic area with radiation to the carotid , no gallops . ABDOMEN : Nontender , without palpable masses or hepatosplenomegaly . 
EXTREMITIES : Full range of motion , without clubbing , cyanosis , or edema . 
No petechiae . 
NEUROLOGIC : Cranial nerves II - XII grossly intact . 
Gait is normal . 
MENTAL STATUS : Alert and oriented times three . 
Mood is normal . 
NODES : There are no palpable cervical , supraclavicular , axillary , or inguinal lymph nodes . 
LABORATORY Sodium 134 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 100 , bicarb 26 , glucose 150 , BUN 15 , creatinine 1.3 ( stable since last visit 1 month ago , was 1.3 ) , calcium 10.1 , LDH 169 , AST 14 , ALT 11 , alkaline phosphatase 80 , total bilirubin 0.5 , direct bilirubin 0.1 , total protein 7.5 , albumin 4 , white count 10.5 , hematocrit 44 , platelets 173 , neutrophils 880 . 
RADIOLOGY Chest x - ray today showed probable scar at the left upper lobe , no new areas of abnormality . 
Chest x - ray appeared clearer than a month ago . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Mr. Smith is a 65-year - old male with severe comorbidities , including moderately severe aortic stenosis , chronic renal insufficiency due to 1 kidney because of nephrectomy of renal cell carcinoma , severe COPD , ex - smoker . 
He has stage IIIA squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , status post definitive chemoradiation therapy , here for followup visit . 
From the lung point of view , he has been doing about the same , and we would continue observation , and the patient has already scheduled imaging with Dr. Patel on June 25 , 2012 . 
That scan will be 3 months after finishing definitive chemoradiation therapy . 
His chest x - ray today is improved from a month ago . 
He has chronic cough and phlegm but no severe dyspnea on exertion . 
We advised the patient about the possibility of radiation pneumonitis that still might happen which is different from the presentation of pneumonia , and he has to keep in mind that his treatment will be different . 
We also referred patient for nutrition consult to see if any low residual diet can decrease the chance of recurrent small bowel obstruction . 
According to his surgeon , the only way for the small bowel obstruction is resection of scar , which might cause more scar in the future , and the patient is not very excited about that idea . 
We will see if our nutritionist has any recommendations to help possibly decrease the chance of recurrent small bowel obstruction . 
We will see the patient in about 3 months ' time with a repeat CT of the chest with no contrast for followup visit The patient is seen and discussed with Dr. Laura Chow . 
ATTENDING ADDENDUM Mr. Bruce Smith is a very pleasant 65-year - old man with a previous history of left - sided nephrectomy in 2006 with some pre - existing renal dysfunction with creatinine in the range of 1.6 , as well as recurrent small bowel obstructions due to adhesions secondary to the left - sided nephrectomy .
He has poor pulmonary reserve and has COPD .
He has had stage IIIA non - small cell lung cancer , inoperable squamous cell carcinoma , and is a former smoker .
Mr. Bruce Smith was seen today alongside with Dr. Bin Xie .
Please refer to Dr. Bin Xie 's note above which I have reviewed and agree with .
In summary , Mr. Smith has completed chemoradiation in May. He was somewhat short of breath , at which point I increased his inhaled Flovent which has helped a lot in terms of his shortness of breath .
He has no residual numbness or tingling and he is able to walk relatively well and golf now , and most of his fatigue is resolved .
His shortness of breath has not worsened .
He has had no infectious symptoms , and he no longer has odynophagia .
He is feeling well and we discussed today that he already has a followup appointment with Dr. Patel and some imaging next month .
I have asked him to be very careful in terms of his hydration status , and to try and avoid IV contrast as he has a solitary kidney .
Furthermore , he has had some recurrent bowel obstructions , and he may benefit from a visit with our dietitian to see if there may be a low residue diet or some other type of diet that may help prevent his recurrent bowel obstructions . 
Mr. Smith had gone into the hospital again 3 weeks ago for a bowel obstruction .
This seems to have resolved .
He has no other new symptoms of note , and is doing well .
We again stressed the risk of radiation pneumonitis and signs of any infection or COPD exacerbations and pneumonias that can still occur , and he needs to call us if he has any worsening shortness of breath or fevers or chills .
Otherwise , he does look very well .
His chest x - ray shows a continued response of his tumor to the radiation .
There are no signs of any radiation pneumonitis and his ECOG performance status is essentially 0 at this time .
We will see him back in approximately 3 months ' time with a noncontrast CT .
This would be 3 months after his visit with Dr. Patel , and we will just alternate followup with Dr. Patel .
Overall , Mr. Smith is doing well .
I saw and assessed him alongside with Dr. Bin Xie today and agree with his note above . 