UROLOGY CLINIC VISIT CHIEF COMPLAINT History of renal cell carcinoma . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Mr. Smith is a 64-year - old male status post left laparoscopic nephrectomy in September 2008 with final pathology pT3b , negative margins . 
He is here today for followup routine surveillance . 
Since last visit in January , he has had 2 more episodes of acute abdominal pain , one of which required a visit to the emergency department . 
Non - operative management was performed , and the patient did not require hospital admission . 
He has not had any abdominal pain for the last 3 months . 
He did have an abdominal series performed in April , which demonstrated constipation , however no air - fluid levels . 
The patient reports daily bowel movements which are normal in consistency . 
He denies any flank pain . 
The patient also has good baseline urinary symptoms on the dutasteride and Flomax . 
He has nocturia 1 - 2 times per night . 
He denies any gross hematuria . 
His symptoms are stable . 
The patient has a history of tobacco abuse . 
He was given a prescription for Chantix in January and completed a 12-week course . 
The patient 's last cigarette was in April . 
He reports that sometimes it is difficult to resist cravings but remains optimistic that he can continue to remain off cigarettes . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1 . 
COPD . 2 . 
Hypertension . 
3 . 
BPH . 4 . 
Renal cell carcinoma . 
5 . 
History of small - bowel obstruction . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . Appendectomy . 2 . 
Lymph node excision . 
3 . 
Multiple skin excisions . 
4 . 
Left laparoscopic nephrectomy . 
MEDICATIONS 1 . 
Tylenol . 2 . 
ProAir HFA as needed . 3 . 
Combivent as needed . 4 . 
Dutasteride 0.5 mg daily
. 5 . 
Lisinopril 10 mg taken daily . 
6 . 
Flomax 0.4 mg daily . 
ALLERGIES NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS No gross hematuria . 
Stable urinary stream . 
Episodes of nausea and abdominal pain resolved since April . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION VITAL SIGNS : Weight 242.5 pounds , blood pressure 110/80 , pulse 88 . 
GENERAL : Well appearing , in no acute distress . 
HEENT : Normocephalic , atraumatic . 
LUNGS : Decreased aeration bilaterally , no wheeze . 
HEART : Systolic murmur present . 
Regular . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended , central obesity , well - healed surgical scars , no hernias . 
EXTREMITIES : 
No lower extremity edema . 
Moves extremities well . 
NEUROLOGIC : Nonfocal . 
PSYCHIATRIC : Appropriate . 
LABORATORY WORK Labs from June 23 significant for BUN 18 , creatinine 1.4 . 
BUN 18 , creatinine 1.4 , LDH 146 , AST 20 , ALT 19 , alkaline phosphatase 79 , bilirubin 0.6 , albumin 3.7 , PSA 1.0 . 
RADIOLOGY The patient had an outside MRI in January 2011 and by report showed simple cysts . 
No adenopathy . 
The patient had a chest x - ray in April outside and by report showed stable COPD and cardiomegaly . 
IMPRESSION 1 . 
History of renal cell carcinoma status post left laparoscopic nephrectomy in September 2008 , for pT3b disease , no evidence of disease . 2 . 
Benign prostatic hypertrophy ( BPH ) , stable on Flomax and dutasteride . 3
. Smoking cessation . 
PLAN The patient was seen and examined with Dr. Wright , and the plan was formed with Dr. Wright regarding his history of renal cell carcinoma . 
We will have a followup in 6 months in January with labs and CT of the abdomen and pelvis with and without IV contrast . 
We will consider going to yearly surveillance if those studies are normal . 
Regarding his smoking cessation , encouraged the patient to keep up his smoking cessation . 
The patient was given a prescription for Jalyn , which is a combination dutasteride and Flomax pill . 
He will see if his insurance will cover this prescription . 
We will see him in 6 months . 
ATTENDING STATEMENT : I saw and evaluated the patient and agree with Dr. His 's note . 
Additional diagnoses : _ , _ Date of Service : _ 
Today 's Date is : 07/8/2011 