SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT Dr. Lang is a 53-year - old woman , orthopedic surgeon , with a history of stage I adenocarcinoma of the lung , here for routine follow up . 
PREVIOUS THERAPY Left upper lobectomy of the lung January 2010 . 
CURRENT TREATMENT None . 
INTERVAL HISTORY Dr. Lang had noticed more shortness of breath over the past couple of months .
She has been using Spiriva and has had to increase her albuterol to a couple times a day two or three times a week compared to not using albuterol at all over the summer .
She feels the albuterol helps " some . "
She has been sleeping on three pillows at night , which she has had to do in the past when her breathing was worse after her lobectomy .
She has been followed by a pulmonologist at Peace Health and her last PFTs in September 2013 were stable .
She is still doing the same 2 - 2.5 mile loop near her home in 30 - 45 minutes , depending on how often the dog stops , which is unchanged from the 30 - 40 minutes she reported a year ago . 
She also reports increased headaches for the past 6 weeks which start in the back of her head and spread forward .
She has no aura or visual disturbances .
For the past couple months , she has increased nausea that sometimes occurs with the headaches but sometimes occurs on waking .
She reports episodes of dizziness that occured once while she at the sink leaning forward and a few times when her eyes were closed over the past 6 weeks .
She does not noticed increased dizziness or lightheadedness on standing from a seated or supine position .
She has had palpitations for many years and wore monitor for a month a few years ago which did not capture any events , but she had 2 recent episodes of tachycardia in the 120s-140s , regular rhythm , that lasted a couple of hours .
She tried to valsalva and stick her face in ice - cold water , but neither seemed to abort the episode .
Her appetite and energy are normal .
Her sleep has never been very good , but this remains unchanged . 
ECOG performance status is 1 . 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS As described in Interval History ; the remainder is negative . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY 1
. Hypothyroidism . 2 . 
Endometrial cancer , status post TAH BSO in 2006 . 3 . 
Dyspnea that began right after her left upper lobectomy in January 2010
. Followed by a pulmonologist at Peace Health .
She has had known left hemidaiaphragm paralysis . 
4 . 
Abnormal pineal cystic mass on MRI , which was followed and stable for 18 months by Dr. Eaton in 2010 - 2011 and no additional surveillance was felt necessary , in the absence of symptoms . 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY 1 . 
Rhinoplasty
. 2 . 
Closed reduction of dislocated right hip . 
3 . 
Multiple breast biopsies with benign pathology . 4 . 
Laparoscopic appendectomy . 
5 . D and C. 6 . 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo - oophorectomy and lymph node dissection in 2006 for endometrial cancer . 7 . 
Excision of right parotid pleomorphic adenoma . 
MEDICATIONS albuterol vitamin D3 premarin levothyroxine MVI Spiriva SOCIAL HISTORY The patient is a lifelong nonsmoker . 
She is an orthopedic surgeon and is working full - time . 
She has 2 teenage children at home . 
Her husband is a pediatrician . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Temperature : 36.9 Pulse : 74 Blood Pressure : 116 / 74 Respirations : 16 Height : 170.2 cm Weight : 76.8 kg BMI : 26.5kg / m2 Oxygen Saturation : 97% ( Room air ) GENERAL : Alert , well - developed , well - nourished woman in no apparent distress , breathing comfortably on room air . 
HEENT : Head normocephalic atraumatic . 
Pupils equal , round and reactive . 
Sclerae anicteric . 
Oropharynx benign without erythema or exudate . 
LYMPHATIC : No supraclavicular , cervical , axillary lymphadenopathy . LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally .
No wheezes , rales , rhonchi .
Normal respiratory effort .
Speaking in full sentences . 
CARDIAC : Regular rate and rhythm . 
No murmurs , gallops , or rubs . 
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , nondistended , bowel sounds present . 
EXTREMITIES : Bilateral trace edema at the ankles . SKIN : No rashes appreciated . 
PSYCHIATRIC / NEUROLOGIC : 
The patient has a normal affect , good eye contact , normal range of expression . 
Laboratory Results ( Last result for the prior 7 days ) 
02/24/2014 Na 139 K 3.9 Cl 103 CO2 29 Glucose Level 76 BUN 12 Creatinine 0.69 Ca 9.1 LD ( Total ) 186 AST ( GOT ) 20 ALT ( GPT ) 14 Alk Phos ( Total ) 40 Bilirubin ( Total ) 0.3 Bilirubin ( Direct ) < 0.1 Protein ( Total ) 6.8 Albumin 3.9 WBC 8.04 RBC 4.34 Hb 13.1 HCT 39 PLT 213 Neutrophils 4.71 RADIOLOGY 2/24/14 CXR , PA and lateral : I personally reviewed the images as well as the radiology report : Compared to 07/11/2011 , there is no change . 
There is atelectasis or scar on the left following left lung resection . 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN Dr. Lang is a 53-year - old woman , never smoker , with stage IA non - small cell lung cancer , EGFR negative , now 4 years status post lobectomy . 
She has been followed every 6 months for history and physical and every 12 months for a non - contrast CT for surveillance .
Her next CT is due in 6 months . 1 .
Dyspnea .
This began after her surgery and was improving in 2012 , but has worsened again over the past couple months . 
She saw multiple specialists , including Dr. Merati for voice changes after surgery , but did not have a clear diagnosis , other than known left hemidiaphragm paralysis .
She has been followed by a pulmonologist who has performed serial PFTs at Peace Health and managed her with Spiriva and albuterol .
Since her symptoms have worsened since her last PFTs in September , which were unremarkable by patient report , I think she should be re - evaluated .
She prefers to transfer her care to SCCA Pulmonary for convenience , and we will make a referral .
A CXR today shows no etiology .
Labs are normal . 2 . Headaches .
She describes a significant increase in headaches over the past 6 weeks with accompanying nausea and a few episodes of dizziness .
Since she has a history of an abnormal pineal cystic mass on MRI in 2011 , we will reimage , to be cautious . 3 .
Tachycardia .
She has had episodes of tachycardia for many years , and wore a monitor for a month a few years back , which unfortunately did n't capture any events .
Her more prolonged episodes over the past month may be due to her increased albuterol use .
Continued observation for now . 
If this continues to be more pronounced , we can send her back to cardiology for additional work up . 
Health Maintenance .
She is looking for a primary care provider .
She has a gynecologist .
She underwent a screening colonoscopy which revealed tubular adenomas in 2012 .
She will need to get her next colonoscopy after 5 years , in 2017 . 
Follow up : 1 - 2 weeks to review MRI brain results . 