U3250668,6595_00050,2013-03-29,"SCCA MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE   
DATE OF SERVICE:  March 29, 2013.

IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT   
Ms. Grogan is a 54-year-old woman with metastatic lung adenocarcinoma EGFR mutation positive on Exon 21.

CURRENT THERAPY   
Abraxane and a phase 2 clinical trial.  Today will be cycle 4, day 15.

PREVIOUS THERAPY   
Tarceva.

INTERVAL HISTORY   
Ms. Grogan presents in clinic today for follow up prior to scheduled chemo treatment today.  She says that she continues to feel well and since her previous visit has no longer had any episodes of blood-tinged sputum and now associates that with the use of Claritin which she will avoid in the future.  Her shortness of breath is stable compared with the previous visits, she continues to drain 500-600 mLs of fluid from her PleurX drain 1-2x/week ? she denies any issues with drain to date.  She states her pain levels are stable, only some minimal post-surgical pain in her back that she is currently not taking anything for.  Her appetite is still minimally decreased, but she thinks she maintains adequate caloric intake and her weight has been stable for the last several visits.  She maintains that he sleep, energy level and fatigue are all stable and manageable, though not ideal.  She complained of episodes of dizziness which she associated with dehydration due to poor fluid intake as her chronic throat irritation had been bothering her, but she will continue to try to drink fluids as she knows that helps to alleviate the symptoms.  She specifically denied current issues with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, chills/fevers, pain/sob (except as mentioned), urinary issues, H/A, mouth sores, or issues of depression or anxiety.  She inquired today about having us manage her BP medications as her cardiologist/PCP who had done so in the past had recently retired and she was on her last refill of BP rx.  She continues to be very excited for her daughter?s wedding next week, and promised to bring in photos at her next visit.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS   
Other than as noted above, the complete review of systems is negative.  

MEDICATIONS   
An updated medications list in the ORCA database.

ALLERGIES   
LISINOPRIL PENICILLIN AND SULFA DRUGS.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION   
VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 36.4, heart rate 56, respiratory rate 16, blood pressure 104/60 patient's weight is 38.9 kg, compared to 38.5 kg at last visit on 3/22.
GENERAL:  This is a thin, frail appearing, cachectic woman in NAD, breathing comfortably on room air.
HEENT:  Head normocephalic, atraumatic.  Anicteric sclerae, noninjected.  PERRL.  Oropharynx is moist and free of thrush or lesions.
NECK:  Supple.  No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy.
LUNGS:  Decreased in the bases bilaterally (R>L),  PleurX catheter in place with no signs or symptoms of infection.
HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
ABDOMEN:  Soft, peristaltic, nontender, nondistended.  No organomegaly appreciated.
EXTREMITIES:  No edema or cyanosis.
NEUROLOGIC:  A + O x 3/3 and grossly nonfocal.  

LABORATORY DATA   
No CMP or liver studies today.  CBC continues to show reasonably stable baseline anemia and thrombocytosis with WBC at 5.64, Hb at 11.0, Hct at 35, Plts at 484, and ANC of 3.99.

IMPRESSION AND PLAN   
Adenosquamous carcinoma, EGFR L858R mutation positive - She had been on Tarceva for approximately 8 months.  This was discontinued due to disease progression. She continues on single agent Abraxane in the setting of phase 2 clinical trial.  Today is cycle 4, day 15 - there are no abnormal labs or physical contraindications, therefore she will continue with scheduled treatment of Abraxane today.

Hemoptysis ? resolved with discontinuation of Claritin, though we will continue to monitor.  

Dehydration/dizziness - as she states she has been drinking very little water and is dizzy when she stands up.  Continued to advise patient to increase her fluid, and will consider giving her additional fluid during treatments from this point forward.  

Hypertension ? advised patient we would be able to manage and prescribe her HTN mediations, but encouraged her to consider seeking out a new PCP as a better long term solution.

FOLLOW UP
We will see her back in clinic on April 12 prior to restaging scans on Apr 11.  The patient was also advised to contact us should she develop any new or worsening symptoms or needed to be seen sooner.

"
