U2680495,6393_00108,2011-05-30,"May 27, 2011

Keith Eaton, MD
SCCA
Box 358081


RE:  PRINCE, MARY
U 2680495


Dear Keith:

I had the pleasure seeing Mary Prince and her son, Guy, in consultation today, May 27, 2011, in Neuro-Oncology Clinic at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance.  As you aware, she is a 71-year-old, right-handed, white female with extensive stage small cell lung cancer diagnosed in the spring of 2009 and treated with etoposide and carboplatin.  She sustained a complete response, but subsequently developed a solitary brain metastasis in November 2009, treated with gamma knife.  She has been disease free since that time.

Approximately a year ago, she had the onset of a bilaterally symmetric tremor affecting only the upper extremities, sparing the jaw and legs.  This fluctuates from day to day but she feels that over the last several months it has increased in frequency and tremor height.  It does affect her handwriting as well as her ability to drink from either a glass or cup of coffee.  It does not appear to affect her use of eating utensils, in particular a spoon when eating soup.  She feels that in general it has not affected her level of function.  She denies any rigidity, has had no falls, has not had issues with constipation, and there has been no change in smell.  She denies any problems with cognition and has no change in sensation or power.  Neurologic review of systems otherwise unremarkable. Of note, she has had no recent introduction of new medicines, nor has she had a prior exposure to antidopaminergic agents.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS   
1.
Tylenol as needed.
2.
Aspirin 325 mg daily.
3.
Wellbutrin SR 150 mg twice daily.
4.
Clonazepam 0.5 mg twice per day.
5.
Folic acid 0.4 mg daily.
6.
Levothyroxine 100 micrograms daily.
7.
Lisinopril 20 mg daily.
8.
Ativan 0.5 mg as needed.
9.
Metformin 500 mg daily.
10.
Metoprolol 50 mg daily.
11.
Omeprazole 20 mg twice daily.
12.
Pravastatin 40 mg daily.
13.
Zoloft 50 mg daily.

FAMILY HISTORY   
Reveals that her husband passed away from a myocardial infarction.  She has two sons and two daughters, all in good health.  She has no history of tremor in the family or Parkinson disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY   
She  previously worked as a waitress and has done some social work.  She has a 60+ pack-year history of smoking but does not smoke at present.  She drinks socially.

ALLERGIES   
PENICILLIN.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY   
1.
She has undergone a total abdominal hysterectomy.
2.
Tonsillectomy.
3.
Multilevel laminectomy for lumbar stenosis.
4.
She has had a suicide attempt by gun in 1986 with traumatic injury to her forehead.
5.
She has had strabismus surgery as an infant and is blind in her right eye.
6.
She has a history of hypertension.
7.
Type 2 diabetes.
8.
Elevated cholesterol.
9.
Anxious depression.
10.
TIA in 2001.
11.
By her report, congestive heart failure.
12.
As well as an internal cranial artery thrombosis.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS   
CONSTITUTIONAL:  Denies fatigue, appetite good, weight stable, no fevers or chills, no night sweats.
HEENT:  No headache, no dry eye, no visual symptoms, no hearing loss, no ear pain, no nasal drainage, no sinus pressure, no oral lesions or pain.
LUNGS:  No shortness of breath, no cough, no wheezing.
CARDIAC:  No palpitations or chest pain.
GASTROINTESTINAL:  No heartburn, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation, no abdominal discomfort.
LYMPH NODES:  No lymph node swelling.
URINARY:  No urinary discomfort. No hematuria.
MUSCULOSKELETAL:  No muscular, bone or joint symptoms.
ENDOCRINE:  No known thyroid condition or diabetes.
SKIN:  No pruritus or rash
HEMATOLOGIC:  No bleeding or bruising.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION   
VITAL SIGNS:  She is afebrile, heart rate is 72, respirations 16, blood pressure is 140/80.  Weight 82.6 kg.  Karnofsky performance status is 90.
NEUROLOGIC EXAM:  Mental status Awake, alert, and fluent. Follows commands with normal naming, recall and repetition.
CRANIAL NERVES:  Reveal vision to light and dark and motion only in the right eye, but otherwise cranial nerves are normal.
MOTOR:  Motor reveals some generalized loss of bulk but otherwise normal power.  She has a fine tremor that is brought out best with intention as well as suspension. There is minimal evidence of tremor at rest.  Muscle tone is normal, without evidence of cogwheeling or rigidity.
COORDINATION:  Normal rapid alternating movements and finger-to-nose maneuver.
SENSATION:  Intact to primary modalities.
REFLEXES:  Deep tendon reflexes are equal and symmetric.  No  pathologic reflexes are seen.
GAIT:  Gait she has mild gait instability but walks independently without support with a normal arm swing.

IMPRESSION   
This is a  71-year-old woman with small cell lung cancer, and what appears to be essential tremor.  At this time, treatment is a function of quality of life and my suggestion at this time would be to treat her with Mysoline or primidone should she feel that treatment would be in her interest, in that it is not clear that this is impacting her quality of life.  I think being reassured that this does not represent Parkinson disease may be sufficient.

I am happy to see her back, Keith, should she choose to move forward with treatment.

Thank you again for allowing me to assist in her care.

Please note, 80 were minutes spent with the patient, more than half in counseling and coordination of care.

Sincerely,

"
