U2680495,6393_00095,2010-12-14,"SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE SHARED MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE   

IDENTIFICATION   
Ms. Prince is a 71-year-old woman with metastatic small-cell lung cancer with metastatic disease to the brain.

CURRENT THERAPY SURVEILLANCE   
Previous Therapy:  4 cycles of carboplatin and Taxol followed by radiation therapy to the chest completed June 2009 followed by gamma knife radiotherapy to a single CNS lesion.

INTERVAL HISTORY   
Mary comes in today for routine followup.  Overall, she has had a poor month and attributes this to depression.  She has no interest in doing the things that she usually likes.  She has not been doing her 3-times-a-week swimming.  She has not been crocheting.  She has not been getting out.  She feels pretty snowbound living in Ellensburg with the bad weather which we have had.  She is going to Georgia for 1 month going January 5 to February 5 and is both excited and concerned in going, as there are lots of family issues there also.  Otherwise, she complains of blurred vision and an eye discharge, ongoing urethral pain for which she is being followed by her primary care provider and her depression has gotten more significant.  Otherwise, review of systems is negative.  She has a performance status of 1.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY   
1.
Blindness in 1 eye.
2.
Congestive heart failure.
3.
Coronary artery disease.
4.
Coronary stenosis.
5.
Depression.
6.
Eye surgeries.
7.
Hypertension.
8.
Hypothyroidism.
9.
Likely nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
10.
Partial hysterectomy.
11.
Peptic ulcer disease.
12.
Renal artery stenosis.
13.
Hernia repair.
14.
Lumbar spine surgery.
15.
Tonsillectomy.
16.
Transient ischemic attack.
17.
Type 2 diabetes.

ALLERGIES   
TO PENICILLIN.

MEDICATIONS   
Please see ORCA medical record, which is up to date.  Of note, her clonazepam dose is 0.5 twice a day and will be starting Zoloft 50 mg PO daily in conjunction with the Wellbutrin 150 mg.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION   
VITAL SIGNS:  The patient's weight is 88.6.  Her temperature is 36.7 with a heart rate is 66, blood pressure 116/68.
GENERAL:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished woman, flat affect, in no acute distress, breathing comfortably on room air.
HEENT:  Oral cavity is clear.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.
NECK:  Without any palpable lymphadenopathy.
LUNGS:  Diffusely heard and clear without crackles, rhonchi or wheezes.
HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No rubs, murmurs, or gallops.
ABDOMEN:  Obese.  Difficult to feel any hepatosplenomegaly due to habitus.
EXTREMITIES:  With trace edema bilaterally.
NEUROLOGIC:  Good strength bilaterally.  Good sensation bilaterally.  He uses a walker to aid in walking.

No labs were drawn today.  No scans were done today.

IMPRESSION AND PLAN   
1.
Ms. Prince is a 71-year-old woman with a past medical history remarkable for congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, carotid stenosis, transient ischemic attacks as well as hypertension and type 2 diabetes.  She has a history of smoking and presented with small-cell lung cancer.  She did not have any evidence of distant metastatic disease at the time and was treated with carboplatin and etoposide with response and  subsequent concomitant chemo with carboplatin and etoposide.  This was reasonably tolerated with the exception of radiation esophagitis, which has since resolved.  She had a small frontal lesion and received gamma knife for this.  She has not had any headaches.  She has not had any nausea, but she does take Reglan twice a day, as she was having kind of significant nausea previously and has not had any further problem with this.
2.
Depression.  The patient appears more depressed today.  She is on Wellbutrin 150 mg twice a day extended release.  We will add  Zoloft 50-mg tabs as an adjunct to her therapy to see if she has better benefit from this, as she has long-standing depression for the last 35 years.  She is to call us with any worsening in her symptoms.  Otherwise, we will see her back in 2 months' time with repeat scanning and laboratories at that time.
3.
Depression.  We will check her TSH today to evaluate whether this is affecting her depression. I spent 30 minutes with this patient with greater than 50% of the time in counseling and coordination of care.

"
