


Interim Summary

Dates included in Summary : 1/29/10 - 3/8/10

Diagnoses :
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
Polyarticular Gout
Diverticular Perforation
Pancytopenia secondary to chemotherapy
Neutropenic Fever
Coagulase Negative Staphylococcus Line infection
Alpha - hemolytic Streptoccus Bacteremia
History of Herpes Zoster
Hematuria
Hearing Loss secondary to Cerumen Impaction

Consults Completed :
Rheumatology
Orthopedic Surgery
Otolaryngology
General Surgery
Interventional Radiology
Infectious Diseases

Operations / Procedures :
1/30/10 MUGA
1 . Normal regional and global wall motion in the left and right ventricle .
2 . Normal LVEF measuring 66 to 69 % .

1/30/10 PICC placement


1/30/10 Flow cytometry of peripheral blood ( pre-treatment )
INTERPRETATION
1 . Abnormal myeloid blast population identified ( see comment ) .
2 . No abnormal B cell or T cell population identified ( see comment ) .
COMMENT
The presence of greater than 20 % abnormal myeloid blasts in the peripheral blood and / or marrow ( 72.7 % of the total white cells ) is diagnostic for acute myeloid leukemia by WHO criteria . The blasts have abnormal expression of CD13 ( variable ) , CD15 ( probable low ) , CD33 ( bright ) , CD34 ( absent ) , CD38 ( decreased ) , CD45 ( low ) , CD64 ( low ) , CD123 ( increased ) , and HLA-DR ( low to absent ) with normal expression of CD71 and CD117 without CD3 , CD5 , CD7 , CD8 , CD14 , CD16 , CD19 , CD20 , CD56 , or surface light chains . CD2 , CD4 , and CD10 may be expressed at very low levels . Consequently , these findings suggest promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) under the WHO classification , although confirmation of the presence of the t ( 15 ; 17 ) by FISH or conventional cytogenetics is recommended . Cytogenetic evaluation is recommended to provide additional prognostic information , and morphologic correlation is suggested .

2/5/10 Left elbow bursa aspriration .

2/5/10 Left wrist aspiration .

2/23/10 Tunnelled catheter placement Uneventful ultrasound and fluoroscopic-guided placement of a right tunneled dual lumen low flow catheter .

2/27/10 CT abdomen / pelvis
1 . Small degree of pneumoperitoneum with pericolic stranding and concentrated pockets of free gas around the sigmoid colon in the setting of colonic diverticula are consistent with perforated diverticulitis . No focal fluid collections . The remainder of the bowel , including the appendix , is unremarkable .
2 . Multiple scattered hepatic hypodensities , the largest measuring 11 mm ( 3 / 40 ) , are indeterminate , but likely represent cysts .
3 . Right fat containing Bochdalek hernia .
4 . Right inguinal fat containing hernia .

3/2/10 CT abdomen / pelvis
Abdomen : Compared with the 02-27 , 2010 scan , there has been interim
development of bilateral lower lobe atelectatic change . The liver
again shows multiple hypodensities , likely cysts . Gallbladder and
biliary tract appear normal . Pancreas , adrenals , kidneys , and spleen
are normal . Upper gastrointestinal tract are normal . Nasogastric tube
is in place .
Pelvis : The pelvis shows left inguinal hernia containing fat and fluid .
Inflammatory change around the sigmoid colon is again identified
associated with free intraperitoneal gas and a developing left
paracolonic abscess which extends from the sigmoid colon perforation
superiorly along the left paracolic gutter to the level of the
splenic flexure . It contains gas and fluid and has a contrast
enhancing rim . Some free fluid is now noted in the lower pelvis .
1 . Probable sigmoid colon perforation with developing paracolonic abscess as described above .
2 . Free intraperitoneal gas .
3 . Small amount of developing free ascites within the pelvis .
4 . Bilateral lower lobe atelectatic change .


3/2/10 CT-guided drainage catheter placement times two .


3/5/10 Bone marrow aspiration ( Day 36 s/p induction with ATRA / Idarubicin )
Bone marrow , aspirate : No abnormal myeloid blast population identified ( see comment ) .
COMMENT
There is no immunophenotypic evidence of residual acute myeloid leukemia by flow cytometry . Correlation of these findings with morphology is recommended .


3/8/10 CT abdomen / pelvis
1 . Decrease in size of the left abdominal fluid collection adjacent to the descending colon extending to the splenic flexure with drain in unchanged position .
2 . Interval increase in size of the 2 additional perisigmoid fluid rim enhancing collections measuring 3 cm x 3.5 cm and 2.4 cm x 4.7 cm .



Reason for Admission :
( Please refer to Dr. Azen 's admission note for further details )
Mr. Boka is a 53 year old man who presented with three days of gum bleeding , progressing to 3 large cups of bloody output from his mouth a day . He presented to his local hospital in Montana , where he was transfused platelets and underwent a bone marrow biopsy , which indicated leukemia . He was urgently transfered to the SCCA for definitive therapy .


Hospital Course , by problem :

Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia ( APL ) .
On admission , the diagnosis of APL was confirmed by flow cytometry and presence of translocation 15 ; 17 . WBC on admission was 1.8 , portending a better prognosis ( WBC < 10 K ) . Due to SWOG enrollment difficulties , Mr. Boka was started on consolidation with ATRA with idarubicin , per PETHEMA group LPA 99 regimen , which he began on 1/29/10 . He was monitored closely for signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation , which he showed no evidence of . He has showed a good response to therapy , as evidence by bone marrow aspiration on 3/5/10 demonstrating morphologic remission . The plan is for him to be continued on all - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) : Tretinoin 40 mg PO qAM and 50 mg PO qPM until complete hematologic remission . At this time , he will need to have his bowel perforation issues addressed before proceeding with three additional cycles of consolidation therapy ( see below for details ) . The current plan is to complete consolidation therapy here at the SCCA . Dr. Abkowitz is his SCCA provider . He had been transfered from Montana , under the care of Dr. Ward 406-752 - 8900 .

Perforated diverticulitis / paracolonic abcesses :
On 2/27/10 , Mr. Boka noted sudden abdominal pain along with a fever to 39.2 in the setting of recovering blood counts . Fever workup included a chest radiograph , which demonstrated free air under the diaphragm . This was followed up with a CT abdomen / pelvis and a General Surgery Consult . Initial management was conservative with bowel rest and broad spectrum antibiotics ( imipenem and vancomycin ) . Repeat maging on 3/1/10 demonstrated two paracolonic abscesses . On 3/2/10 , Interventional Radiology placed two external drains to manage the abscesses . Cultures from abscesses grew polymicrobial infection , now with predominant alpha - hemolytic streptococcus . Current plan is to continue with a nasogastric tube with low - intermittent suction and bowel rest , with total parenteral nutrition ( TPN ) support for seven to ten days after drain placement . He also received a three day course of Vitamin A 25 , 000 units IM in order to promote wound healing . General Surgery is planning to take Mr. Boka to the operating room for a bowel revision , possibly an end-ileostomy this Friday , 3/12/10 . The overall plan is for revision , and following completion of consolidation chemotherapy


Pancytopenia . ( secondary to chemotherapy ) . Mr. Boka was maintained with transfusional support to keep his hematocrit above 25 % , platelets above 30K / ml . A higher threshold was maintained due to prior hematuria and epistaxis . He was also maintained on neutropenic precautions during neutropenia . At this time , his counts have recovered to the normal range .


Neutropenic Fever / Alpha - hemolytic Streptoccus Bacteremia ( resolved ) Mr. Boka was maintained on vancomycin and imipenem during his period of neutropenia for empiric coverage .

Coagulase Negative Staphylococcus Line infection PICC line removed , 14 - day course vancomycin to be completed on 3/11/10

Gram Negative Rod Bacteremia
Blood cultures follow bowel perforation were positive for gram negative rods and polymicrobia , currently on imipenem for broad spectrum coverage , per Infectious Disease recommendation .

History of Herpes Zoster
Mr. Boka is continued on acyclovir 500 mg IV q12 hrs at this time due to a history of zoster .


Polyarticular Gout : ( left wrist , left knee , right toe ) : Mr. Boka was followed for his gout , and underwent several joint aspirations , which demonstrated uric acid crystals and did not reveal organisms . He was initially started on prednisone with good effect , but a taper was instituted following his bowel perforation . At this time , he has nearly tapered off steroids . He is currently being treated with allopurinol 300 mg PO daily , colcicine 0 . 6mg PO BID and most recently , with anakinra 100 mg SC daily on an as needed basis , with excellent symptom relief . We would not recommend resuming prednisone in the setting of recent bowel perforation .


Hematuria . Mr. Boka was noted to have asymptomatic hematuria following induction chemotherapy , attributed to occult nephrolithiasis from uric acid crystals due to gout flare . This resolved and has not required further intervention .

Hearing Loss secondary to Cerumen Impaction . Mr. Boka was seen by the Otolaryngology service for bilateral hearing loss , concerning for chemotherapy toxicity . However , symptoms improved significantly following cerumen disimpaction .







