

SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE
BREAST ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE

IDENTIFICATION
Andrea Schock is a 60 - year - old postmenopausal woman with recurrent , locally advanced infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the right breast who returns to clinic after PMRT .

PROBLEM LIST
1 .
Right breast infiltrating ductal carcinoma detected on self - exam in April 1997 . Status post lumpectomy and axillary node dissection in June 1997 . Nottingham grade 3 , ER positive at 50 % , PR positive at 3 % , HER - 2 / neu negative . pT1cN0M0 . She received adjuvant chemotherapy with Dr. Jeffery Ward with intravenous CMF every three weeks for total of six cycles last in February 1998 and whole breast radiation therapy . Her chemotherapy was complicated by neutropenia requiring G - CSF . She received five years of adjuvant endocrine therapy with tamoxifen through February 2003 .
2 .
Status post bilateral breast augmentation in 1977 . The patient experienced an implant rupture of the right breast after trauma in 2002 . She had bilateral implant exchanged in 2005 .
3 .
Recurrent breast cancer with skin nodules and thickening of the right breast in December 2008 . She sought medical attention for this in April 2009 . In July 2009 , ultrasound biopsy of the right breast at 9 o 'clock revealed infiltrating ductal carcinoma , grade 3 , with lymphovascular invasion . ER positive , Allred 7 , PR positive , Allred 4 , and HER - 2 / neu negative by FISH . Ki - 67 60 % . Breast MRI showed extensive non - mass - like enhancement in all four quadrants . Skin biopsy of two breast skin nodules late July 2009 revealed infiltrating ductal carcinoma present in the dermal stroma and lymphatics . Staging studies in mid July 2009 showed the right breast mass with skin thickening , three subcentimeter hypodensities in the liver consistent with cysts and an enlarged thyroid . Bone scan was negative . PET CT showed focal uptake in the right breast with an SUV of 3.3 and uptake in a prevascular lymph node with an SUV of 4.9 . Andrea received continuous AC plus G-CSF ( 12 weeks ) followed by paclitaxel with curative intent ( 12 weeks ending January 19 , 2010 ) . Status post right total mastectomy with Dr. Mann February 26 , 2010 with residual micropapillary carcinoma scattered over 3.5 cm with largest focus 0.6 cm . Extensive LVI . ypT1bNx . Right PMRT and radiation to involved mediastinal node with Dr. Travaglini ending in April 2010 .
4 .
Postmenopausal , uterus and ovaries intact . Chemotherapy-induced menopause in 1997 . Family history includes a paternal aunt with skin cancer , a mother with a colon polyp , and a paternal uncle with colon cancer in his 70s . There is a nephew with testicular cancer as well .
5 .
Osteoarthritis with chronic neck and back pain .
6 .
Osteopenia with DEXA showing maximum T-score of -1.6 in 2006 .
7 .
Hyperthyroidism with goiter .
8 .
Bilateral chondromalacia of the knees status post left knee surgery .
9 .
Chronic left hip pain .
10 .
Status post traumatic right rib fracture in 2002 .
11 .
Anxiety .
12 .
Eczema .
13 .
Vitamin D 19 ng / mL March 2010 .

ALLERGIES
AMPICILLIN .

MEDICATIONS
Ambien PRN insomnia
Lorazepam 0.5 mg po QHS PRN insomnia or anxiety
Vitamin D3

INTERVAL HISTORY

Andrea returns today accompanied by her husband . She is relaxed , upbeat , and excited about her upcoming adventure as the captain of a 40 foot yacht touring Alaska for the summer with 4 female friends . Since our last visit in March , Andrea had a seroma on the right chest wall drained 3 times . It reaccumulates within 24 hours and she explains that this is thought related to the breast implant capsule . She has completed PMRT with Dr. Travaglini and was delighted with the care she received during radiation . She states that Dr. Travaglini included the mediastinal node that had FDG uptake on her initial staging scans in the radiation plan . She did well with radiation with minimal fatigue . Her skin was pretty sore , but is healing well . Her most pressing bother is with " phantom right nipple itch " . No swelling in her right arm that she can tell and she has good ROM in her shoulder .

Andrea was also seen by Dr. Krell for insomnia . She found the visit helpful and is using sleep hygeine techniques with sparing lorazepam or ambien with good effect .

She continues to recover from chemotherapy toxicities . She still has some very mild numbness in her toes , but not fingers . She also notes some intermittant pain in her left hip at night , but this was present even before her recent breast cancer diagnosis . Other ROS today is negative . ECOG 0 . Andrea really seems like a new person today - - she is relaxed , not anxious . She tracks the conversation and asks high level questions with confidence .

Andrea requests a prescription for flexeril which she has needed in the past when her back " goes out " . She is worried about being away on the yacht this summer and without easy access to medications .

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
VITAL SIGNS : Weight 77.0 kg , blood pressure 112 / 70 , pulse 68 , respirations 16 , temperature 36.6 GENERAL : Ms. Schock is well-nourished , articulate , relaxed with short hair . HEENT : conjunctiva clear , sclera anicteric . OP clear , no mucosal lesions . NECK : supple . CHEST : lungs CTA . COR : regular , S1 , S2 , no murmur . ABD : soft , benign . EXT : decreased ROM in her left shoulder which is chronic . Right arm without obvious signs of lymphadema . NEURO : non - focal . BREAST EXAM : Status post right mastecomy with a seroma below the incision measuring approximately 8 x 5 cm . Size is stable per Andrea 's report , non - tender . Contralateral breast is within normal limits . The bilateral supraclavicular and axillary regions are free of adenopathy .

LABORATORY DATA
From May 13 , 2010 :

IMAGING STUDIES
Left mammogram 5/13/10 : Comprehensive metabolic panel including LFTs is normal .
WBC 3.34 , ANC 2.54 , Hct 38 % , Hgb 13.5 , Platelets 187 .

Fasting lipids : total chol 174 , triglycerides 49 , HDL 65 , LDL 99

Vitamin D 40.7 ng / mL

IMAGING STUDIES
DEXA 5/13/10 : Osteopenia at the hips with maximum T score -2.1 at the right hip .

Left mammogram : Not done

IMPRESSION
Andrea Schock is a 60 - year - old postmenopausal woman with recurrent , locally advanced and likely oligometastatic infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the right breast . Her history includes breast cancer originally diagnosed in 1997 treated with lumpectomy , axillary node dissection , adjuvant CMF chemotherapy , radiation , and five years of endocrine therapy with tamoxifen . Ms. Schock presented in 2009 with recurrent disease with extensive disease in the right breast with skin involvement . The recurrent tumor is a high-grade infiltrating ductal carcinoma , ER positive , PR positive , and HER - 2 / neu negative by FISH . Staging evaluation which shows extensive disease throughout the right breast , but no definite regional nodal involvement by PET . There is an area of increased uptake in a prevascular node which was highly suggestive of metastatic disease .

Ms. Schock received chemotherapy with continuous AC plus G-CSF followed by paclitaxel with curative intent . Her course was complicated by grade 3 neutropenia requiring reduction of doxorubicin and grade 3 sensory neuropathy requiring dose reduction of paclitaxel . Pre-op PET / CT showed resolution of FDG avid disease . On pathology , there was small foci of residual invasive disease in the breast with LVI . Margins were negative . She had a very good partial response to chemotherapy and has now completed radiation to the right chest wall and mediastinal ( prevascular ) node .

Andrea looks great today . She has a recurrent post - mastectomy seroma that she understands will be treated at the time of future breast reconstruction .

Today , we reviewed the rationale for endocrine therapy in the treatment of her breast cancer . As she is menopausal , have recommended at least 5 years of therapy with an AI . Efficacy , side effects of AIs reviewed and compared with tamoxifen . Give the likely presence of metastatic disease , would recommend extended and perhaps indefinite use of an AI . We also reviewed data from ABCSG - 12 showing benefit of adjuvant bisphosphonate for premenopausal women with ER + breast cancer treated with endocrine therapy . The definitive trial , SWOG 0307 , is closed and results several years away . I reviewed side effects of adjuvant zometa including infusion reactions , afib , potential for ONJ . Given the high-risk nature of Andrea 's disease , I think inclusion of a bisphosphonate is reasonable .


RECOMMENDATIONS
1 .
Start endocrine therapy with an aromatase inhibitor for at least 5 years , and consider indefinite use .
2 .
Begin adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy with zoledronic acid 4 mg IV today , then Q6 months x 3 years . Side effects and patient information provided for zometa and letrozole .
3 .
Andrea will be sailing in Alaska between Memorial day and Labor Day . Will see her back in clinic in September 2010 with a left mammogram .
4 .
For bone health , recommended weight-bearing exercise , calcium and vitamin D supplementation . Zometa may also help prevent AI - induced bone loss . DEXA again in May 2012 .
5 .
Annual CXR in January 2011 . Discussed use of surveillance PET in her situation , but will plan to follow symptoms and TM for now .
6 .
Follow lipids annually . Next in May 2011 .
7 .
Prescriptions also provided for ambien 10 mg po QHS PRN # 60 and cyclobenzaprine ( # 30 ) .

At the conclusion of our meeting today , I believe that Andrea 's questions were addressed .
I spent 30 minutes with Ms. Schock today , the entirety of which was spent in face - to - face counseling and coordination of care .






