

SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE
DATE OF SERVICE : March 11 , 2011

MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC

IDENTIFICATION AND CHIEF COMPLAINT
Ms Mcamis is a 66 - year - old woman with stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer .

CURRENT THERAPY
The patient received 1 cycle of single agent Alimta approximately a week ago .

PREVIOUS THERAPY
The patient completed palliative radiation therapy to the chest followed by 1 cycle of carboplatin and Taxol on chemotherapy protocol 6566 . This was followed by 3 cycles of docetaxel and gemcitabine due to the lack of response by PET .

INTERVAL HISTORY
Ms Mcamis presents in clinic today for an unscheduled visit secondary to significant side effects from her 1 cycle of pemetrexed . She received this cycle 1 week ago today and states she felt well until this past Sunday . She then began to feel like she had the flu and states " everything hurts . " She finds that her right shoulder blade pain , which is a known and ongoing lesion , has increased and her muscles are significantly sore . She is requiring increasing doses of oxycodone for breakthrough in addition to the OxyContin which she is taking twice a day . However she notes that the opioids are minimally helpful for the muscle pain . She also notes some left ear discomfort which comes and goes and began 2 days ago . She also has a runny nose and increasing cough with clear or slightly blood-streaked sputum and some increasing night nasal congestion .

Of note , patient 's most significant concern today is severe constipation . She states she has only been using Senokot , however yesterday she spoke with our nurse , Lisa Buchanan , as well as myself and she was given a mineral oil enema and instructed to begin taking MiraLax on a daily basis . However she states she only had minimal response to the enema as well as the MiraLax . She states she took a dose yesterday as well as this morning . She also has some ongoing nausea and vomiting which she believes is likely related to the constipation , and she states she has been unable to eat anything since this past Sunday but has maintained her oral fluid intake . She has lost approximately 6 pounds in 1 week . She is only minimally dizzy occasionally . Her ECOG performance status is a 2 today .

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS
Other than the items noted above the complete review of systems is negative . She denies fevers , chills , sweats , headaches , vision changes , bleeding or diarrhea .

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY
1 .
Hypercholesterolemia .
2 .
Depression .
3 .
Anxiety .
4 .
Aneurysm status post coiling .
5 .
History of MRSA skin infection .
6 .
Hypertension .
7 .
Osteopenia .
8 .
Esophageal reflux disease .
9 .
Peptic ulcer disease .
10 .
Sialoadenitis .
11 .
Degenerative joint disease of the spine .

MEDICATIONS
An updated medication list is available in the ORCA database and includes :

1 .
Excedrin .
2 .
Dexamethasone .
3 .
Colace .
4 .
Gabapentin .
5 .
Lorazepam .
6 .
Metoclopramide .
7 .
Multivitamin .
8 .
Omeprazole .
9 .
Zofran .
10 .
Oxycodone .
11 .
OxyContin .
12 .
MiraLax .
13 .
Compazine .
14 .
Senna .
15 .
Effexor .

ALLERGIES
NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES .

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.7 , heart rate 68 , respiratory rate 18 , blood pressure 129 / 76 . Patient 's weight is 68.2 kg .
GENERAL : This is a well-developed , well-nourished woman in no acute distress breathing comfortably on room air .
HEENT : Head normocephalic , atraumatic . Anicteric sclerae . Noninjected . Pupils equal , round , reactive to light . Oropharynx is moist without evidence of thrush or lesions . Ears generally clear with some ear wax blocking the visualization of the tympanic membranes .
NECK : Supple . No palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy noted .
LUNGS : Minimally decreased in the left base . Otherwise , clear to auscultation bilaterally .
HEART : Regular rate and rhythm . No murmurs , rubs , or gallops noted .
ABDOMEN : Soft , peristaltic , nondistended , no hepatosplenomegaly , tender in bilateral lower quadrants , bowel sounds present times 4 .
EXTREMITIES : No swelling or cyanosis .
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal .

LABORATORY DATA
Labs today show blood electrolytes significant for a sodium of 135 , and potassium of 3.6 . Her LD is 134 , AST 11 . CBC shows white blood cell count 1.53 with neutrophils 0.65 , hemoglobin 11.2 , hematocrit 34 , platelets 219 , 000 .

IMPRESSION AND PLAN
Ms Mcamis is a 66 - year - old woman with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer . Her prior treatments include radiation therapy , carboplatin and Taxol times 1 cycle followed by 3 cycles of docetaxel and gemcitabine on protocol 6566 . She was then on a treatment break and has had progressive disease although is asymptomatic . She was treated with 1 cycle of pemetrexed 1 week ago and presents today in clinic for an unscheduled visit secondary to 2 significant chemo toxicities . She does note , however , that her husband also had a slight virus approximately week and half ago with similar symptoms , however he had diarrhea rather than constipation . As she has significant flu-like symptoms which is likely a combination of viral illness as well as the pemetrexed , we will have her take ibuprofen 2 tablets twice per day through the weekend and she was instructed to call our nurse , Lisa Buchanan , for a check in on Monday . We would not want her taking NSAIDs for any longer as this can interact with the pemetrexed and cause increasing bleeding risk by lowering the platelets . The patient verbalized understanding . I have also given her a prescription for Colace as well as magnesium citrate , which she will take tonight for her constipation . She will also get some Milk of Magnesia at the drug store should she require further aid with her constipation . She will plan to start taking MiraLax on a daily basis as a maintenance . And again , we will check in with her this coming Monday . Should she develop any new or worsening symptoms such as fever or bleeding , as she is neutropenic she was instructed to go directly to the nearest emergency room . The patient has verbalized understanding .

This is a shared visit with Dr. Keith Eaton .

TIME
I spent 30 minutes with the patient , greater than 50 % of which was spent in counseling and coordination of care .

ATTENDING ADDENDUM :
I spent 10 minutes , and Margaret Kendrick spent an additional 30 minutes , for a total of 40 minutes in face - to - face contact , the majority of which was spent in counseling and coordination of care . Tonya returns today more than a week after receiving Alimta chemotherapy . She has numerous complaints . I think the most significant complaint is of abdominal pain and constipation . I think the antiemetic is the likely culprit in addition to her opioid analgesics . We have talked about a bowel regimen with either milk of magnesia or magnesium citrate to help relieve her severe obstipation and then to follow this with a maintenance regimen of MiraLax . The patient has had some flu-like symptoms , which I think are related to a viral illness . She has not had any fever . She is borderline neutropenic currently . I do not see any need for antibiotics at this time . We have gone over neutropenic fever precautions . If she does have a fever , she is to report to the emergency department right away for potential IV antibiotics if she is neutropenic . She is having myalgias , and we will give her some short-acting NSAID , ibuprofen , to help with this . She knows that she is not to take it right around the time where she is taking Alimta chemotherapy . We will check back in with her next week .


