
Visit Information
Service : Liver Tumor Clinic .
Source of history : patient , medical record .


ID / CC
Synchronous Colon and Liver Metastatis


History of Present Illness
37 Y M with T3N2b high grade invasive carcinoma 18 / 30 LN positive , KRAS + G13D mutation .
He initially was diagnosised in March 2012 after significant BRBPR with symptoms since Nov 2011 . After an episode of BRBPR when running he underwent a colonoscopy that demonstrated a mass in the sigmoid colon extending from 15-1 8cm . Biopsies : infiltrating adenocarcinoma with high grade features . CEA 8.9 and staging CT March 28 th 2012 : no distant disease .
He underwent a laproscopic , hand assisted low anterior resection with Dr Medwell at Swedish on April 5 th 2012 . No intrabdominal metastasis were noted but palpable adenopathy adjacent to the neoplasm . Path relieved 5 . 4x4 . 9x2 . 3cm poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with penetration through the muscularis propria of the distal EA donut .
After surgical resection a 5/1/2012 staging PET / CT demonstrated 2 distinct small , PET avid lesions in the right hepatic lobe and a possible sidewall lymph node that was PET avid .
He has received 5 cycles of adjuvant therapy with FOLFOX plus bevacizumab .
A follow up PET / CT Scan 7/2/2012 : Regression of 2 right lobe liver lesions compared to previous PET / CT in April 2012 .
He reports that he has been having irrectable nausea through chemotherapy . He feels extremely fatigued for the first five days after and then continues to push himself to exercise , work and eat . His weight has been stable throughout . He denies any problems with bowel movements . No diarrhea , no constipation , no jaundice , no easy bruising . No fevers , no chills .




Allergies

NKA



Medications

Scheduled Medications
alprazolam 0.25 mg PO QDay ( Xanax 0.25 mg oral tablet )
ascorbic acid 500 mg PO BID ( Vitamin C 500 mg oral tablet )
aspirin 81 mg PO QDay ( aspirin 81 mg oral enteric coated tablet )
cholecalciferol 2 , 000 units PO Daily ( Vitamin D3 2000 intl units oral tablet )
melatonin * * Clarify dose * * PO Daily
miscellaneous item 1 tab daily on chemo days 1 , 2 , & 3 per package directions ( Aprepitant 3 - pack )
miscellaneous item ( Whey Protein )
omega - 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids * * Clarify directions * *
ubiquinone * * Clarify dose / directions * * ( Co - Q10 )
zolpidem 5 mg PO QHS ( Ambien 5 mg oral tablet )

PRN Medications
dexamethasone 2.5 mg PO BID PRN ( for nausea ) ( dexamethasone 1 mg oral tablet )
dimenhyDRINATE * * Clarify dose * * PO PRN ( nausea ) ( Dramamine )
dronabinol 2.5 mg PO BID PRN ( for nausea ) ( Marinol 2.5 mg oral capsule )
lorazepam 0.5 to 1 mg every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( nausea ) ( lorazepam 0.5 mg oral tablet )
metoclopramide 10 to 20 mg every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( nausea ) ( metoclopramide 10 mg oral tablet )
ondansetron 1 tab every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( nausea ) ( ondansetron 4 mg oral tablet )
prochlorperazine 1 tab every 4 to 6 hours PO PRN ( nausea ) ( prochlorperazine 10 mg oral tablet )




Past Medical History
No previous medical history
Past Liver Disease : None .
Hepatitis Risk Factors : None .


Past Surgical History
4/5/2012 : Laproscopic / Hand Assisted Low Anterior Resection
2012 : Basal Cell Removed from his chest


Family History
Father
GASTROINTESTINAL : Colon Polyps .


Social History
Lives alone in Seattle , Works from home as a fianacial analyst . No children . Total of 8 siblings . Lifetime non smoker , No IVDU , No drugs .


Review of Systems
CONSTITUTIONAL : Fatigue . GASTROINTESTINAL : loss of appetite , nausea . ACTIVITY ( ECOG performance status ) : ( 0 ) Fully Active .

Physical Examination
Weight 182 lb and 82 . 6kg
No temp recorded
BP 138 / 79 HR 81 Sat 97
Alert and orientated NAD
CTA B
RRR No murmur , rub or gallop
Abdomen flat , bowel sounds present , Well healed laproscopic sites and lower midline incision well healed with no erythema or drainage .
No peripheral edema
Vital Signs Vital Signs Data . GENERAL : Well developed . EYES : pupils equal round reactive to light , extraocular movements intact , normal sclera . HEAD / NECK : Normocephalic / atraumatic . RESPIRATORY / CHEST : Normal respiratory effort . CARDIOVASCULAR : regular rate and rhythm , no murmur , rub or gallop , intact pulses , no bruits . GASTROINTESTINAL : normal bowel sounds , abdomen non-tender , no masses / organomegaly , Lower midline incison , well healed scar and lap sites . . GENITOURINARY : No back / flank tenderness . NEUROLOGIC : cranial nerves II - XII intact , strength symmetric and intact , reflexes normal and symmetric . MUSCULOSKELETAL : Normal gait / stance . SKIN : No rash , bruises or ulcers . LYMPHATIC : Normal neck , axillary and groin nodes . PSYCHIATRIC : Alert and Oriented to Person , Place and Time , normal mood .
LIVER : No stigmata associated .


Results Review

July 8 th 2012
Na 138 K 4 , Cl 104 , Co2 28 , Glucose 120 , BUN 14 , Cr 1.1
WBC 7 , Hb 14.8 / 42 , Plts 184
CEA 0.9
LFTS : Albumin 3.8 TBili 0.4 , ALk Phos 87 , AST 31 , ALT 87 No CHEM 7 Results Found .

No CBC Results Found .




Procedures / Diagnostic Studies
No formal reports of previous Ct and PET
July 2 nd 2012 : Segment 6 lesion is barely perceptible , second lesion on prior study is subcapsular aspect of segment 6 in no longer clearly identified . Previously seen fluid collection on left side measures 1 . 2x2 . 9cm , no pelvic lymphadenopathy

10 th July 2012 : CT Chest / Abdomen / Pelvis :
Liver : Hypodense lesion in the inferior right lobe of the liver . Stable in size 7 . 6mm
A further lesion is measured in the peripheral right lobe is not identified compared to previous CT scan May 1 st 2012 . Large Peripheral wedge shaped defect that maybe a perfusion defect .

PATH April 5 th 2012 : Invasive Moderately to poorly differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma
Size 5 . 4cm , invades through the muscularis propria
Angiolymphatic invasion
Proximal and distal margin are negative for carcinoma
Radial margin are negative for carcinoma
EA donut positive for microscopic disease distal
Proximal donut negative for carcinoma
T3N2b


Impression and Plan
37 Y M with T3N2b Colon Cancer with liver metastatic disease post FOLFOX and Avastin 5 cycles .
The patient was discussed at Liver Tumor Conference .
A long discussion was undertaken with patient and Dr Park re surgical intervention of Liver Metastatic Disease .
After reviewing the most recent CT Scan there is a wedge shaped possibly peripheral perfusion defect in the area of segment 6 where the previous lesion was noted . At this time we cannot delinate the lesion from the defect .
- Recommend repeat MRI Abdo / Pelvis with Liver Protocol to assess for lesions
- Discussed Pros and Cons of Liver Resection in the setting of T3N2b K Ras mutant 13D . These discussions included the relative risk of recurrence with a score of 3 [ CEA < 200 , nodes positive , size < 5 cm , DFI < 12 months , KRAS + ] response to chemotherapy has been positive . Moderate risk of recurrence was discussed
- Discussion of chemotherapy alone < 5 % survival at 5 years , surgery / chemo at best 58 % 5 year surival and surgery alone ~ 30 %
- Discussion of chemo toxicity , changes associated with chemo to the liver parenchyma with both steatosis with Avastin and Oxaliplatin with sinusodial dilation and the difficulties and challenges that are associated with surgery
- The anatomical constraints of the liver were also discussed and at this early time in the course of Mr Gabriel 's disease we would prefer to not complete an anatomical resection but wedge resections of the lesions if possible , this would preserve function and total capacity of the liver parenchyma .
- We also discussed the timing of surgery , at this time we believe it would be reasonible to complete 6 cycles of chemotherapy and repeat MRI Abdomen and Pelvis to assess Liver Mets
- A follow up appointment will occur on August 13 th 2012 to determine timing of surgery possibly mid August .


Attending Statement
.
ATTENDING STATEMENT :
I personally saw and evaluated the patient . I discussed the patient with Dr. Quade . I agree with the findings and plan as documented in her note . In essence , Mr. Gabriel is a 37 - year - old man who underwent laparoscopic hand - assisted LAR on 4/5/2012 by Dr. Medwell followed by adjuvant FOLFOX and Bevacizumab for a T3N2 sigmoid colon cancer with G13D K - ras mutation . He was found to have two small synchronous liver metastases in segments 6 and 7 visualized on PET 5/1/2012 which have responded to therapy . A long discussion regarding the natural history of stage 4 colorectal cancer and all potential treatment options was performed . The patient is well - informed regarding conventional and experimental treatment options . We agreed that it would be reasonable to consider completion of the current cycle of FOLFOX / Bevacizumab with interval restaging scan followed by laparoscopic robot - assisted partial hepatectomy , followed by additional adjuvant therapy under the direction of Dr. Lee . He wishes to be aggressive in treatment of his disease and agrees with the proposed management plan . All of his questions were addressed .

Date of Service : 7/17/2012

Today 's Date is : 07/22/2012


Signature

Samantha J . Quade , MD
Resident , General Surgery

James O . Park , MD
Attending , Surgical Oncology