November 24 , 2009

Marcie R . Hamrick , MD
Seattle Institute of Oriental Medicine
916 NE 65 th Street
Seattle , WA 98115


RE : WILCOX , DEIRDRE
U0729910


Dear Dr. Hamrick :

I had the pleasure of meeting one of your patients today in our Multidisciplinary Breast Cancer Clinic regarding her newly diagnosed left-sided breast mass . In addition to my note , you will find notes from Dr. Sara Javid and Dr. Waylene Wang and an excellent note by the surgical resident which details most of the medical history .

In brief , the patient 's story begins when she believes she noted a mass in her left breast over a period of a couple months . She eventually had bilateral screening imaging and diagnostic imaging performed on November 16 , 2009 , here at the University of Washington Medical Center . The right was clear ; however , the left was associated with potentially a mass as large as 39 x 19 x 22 mm in the left breast at the roughly the 11 o 'clock position . In addition , there was what appeared to be possible lymph node involvement with a 13 - mm node with a thickened cortex . She had biopsies performed on this day revealing essentially primarily nonmalignant causes but some suspicion for additional malignancy . I will review this in greater detail below . So subsequently on November 19 , 2009 , she was called back for another biopsy procedure ; however , at this time she was found to have a high-grade infiltrating ductal carcinoma , the pathologic features of which I will discuss below . Since this time , she has been healing up from her procedures and really is not significantly different from her normal baseline other than to be more fatigued . She also has noted ongoing headaches over the last several weeks to months , for which she has no clear explanation . Finally , she tells us that she believes she is perimenopausal because the pattern of her menses has changed .

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY
Past medical history is most notable for a melanoma in 1988 , status post wide local excision . She has a history of gallbladder issues which she has repaired with her own diet . She has a possible heart arrhythmia that is not well defined , and she is hypothyroid .

CURRENT MEDICINES
1 .
Synthroid .
2 .
Vitamins and fish oil .

ALLERGIES : SHE IS NOT ALLERGIC TO ANY KNOWN MEDICINES .

FAMILY HISTORY : Notable for a sister with uterine cancer and an aunt with breast cancer diagnosed in her 80s .

GYNECOLOGIC HISTORY : She is G1 , P0 , age of menarche 13 . No history of oral contraceptive use . She is currently pre or perimenopausal based on her symptoms .

SOCIAL HISTORY : Notable for a 20 - pack - year history of tobacco use , which she discontinued in the late 1980s . Also similarly she used to drink quite a bit which she has also since discontinued since 1993 . There is some history of recreational drugs but no history of IV drug use . She is a yoga teacher and massage practitioner and is most focused in providing private yoga consultation for therapeutic benefit . She is partnered and her partner is present today .

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
VITAL SIGNS : Blood pressure 136 / 88 , pulse 76 ; temperature is afebrile . Height is 158 cm , weight 67 kg . GENERAL : In no acute distress . Pleasant woman appearing her stated age , asking good questions and clearly quite intelligent . LYMPH NODES : Focused exam of the nodes reveals no lymphadenopathy in the cervical , supraclavicular , or axillary region . BREASTS : Examination of the breasts reveals a right breast essentially within normal limits . Left breast is notable for a mass in the 11 o 'clock position , by my examination as much as 5 cm in the longest dimension . It is somewhat tender . ECOG = 0 .

DATA
Data was reviewed with the patient . In particular , I shared with her the biopsy results , which showed initially that she had PASH , but with concern of some high-grade malignant cells involving that process . The biopsy from November 19 , 2009 ; however , reveals a grade 3 infiltrating ductal carcinoma , not associated with DCIS . It is plus - minus for ER expression , positive for PR expression . It has a Ki - 67 rate of 60 % . HER - 2 / neu was indeterminate by immunohistochemistry but positive by fluorescence in situ hybridization .

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN
I spent 60 minutes with the patient , with the majority of that time spent in face - to - face contact and coordination of care for her recently diagnosed invasive ductal carcinoma .

I told her in terms of systemic therapy that she could potentially benefit from chemotherapy , targeted biologic therapy , and endocrine therapy . I told her that the standard approach would be to provide her with Adriamycin and Cytoxan chemotherapy for a period of 12 weeks and then to follow this up with weekly Taxane with concurrent targeted therapy for another 12 weeks . I explained some of the general concerns with chemotherapy toxicities and side effects . I then also dug down deeper into the specific toxicities with the anthracycline such as the risk for heart failure , although this is very low , and I consider it unlikely to happen in this particular patient .

I then moved the discussion to targeted biologic therapy and told her how these medicines work . I specifically discussed Herceptin with her . I told her that this is a medicine that would be given to her for a period of 1 year , initially started concurrently with her Taxol but then to continue on for 9 more months . She has a general understanding of what is involved being on this medicine , although again I did not dive down into deep details with regards to this at this visit .

I finally discussed the endocrine therapy with her and told her that she is currently a candidate for tamoxifen . However , I told her there is a fair chance , given her perimenopausal status , that after finishing chemotherapy , she may be left postmenopausal . For this reason , I told her that I favored the aromatase inhibitors , given their superior disease - free survival , overall survival , and more mild toxicities compared to tamoxifen . We did not spend much time discussing endocrine therapy , since this would follow all chemotherapy before being initiated , which is still quite a ways away .

I finally touched on some clinical studies we have here involving the chemotherapy and targeted biologic therapy . One study I described to her in detail was the ALLTO study in which once she finishes the AC chemotherapy portion , she can then take Taxol and then be randomized to 1 of 4 options utilizing either Herceptin or an alternative biotherapy , lapatinib .

Because of her headaches , I offered her to have MRI screening of the brain at this juncture to make sure there were no malignant lesions that would explain her headaches . In addition , she has not had her breast MRI , and I also told her that this would be a routine thing for her to have performed here within our center . She seemed open to this possibility .

In terms of timing , I told her we would go ahead and complete her diagnostic workup . I presented her the option of considering some of her chemotherapy provided in the neoadjuvant setting but told her in our case that I was actually just fine with having all her systemic therapies being delivered in the adjuvant setting . She seemed okay with that choice but she will think about it .

If you have any further questions regarding the management of this patient , please do not hesitate to page me directly to 206-663 - 6776 . Thank you .

Sincerely ,


