
SEATTLE CANCER CARE ALLIANCE MEDICAL ONCOLOGY CLINIC NOTE

CURRENT MEDICAL PROBLEM
Ms. Hanson is a 50 - year - old female with non-small cell lung cancer , stage II , with microscopic involvement in 1 lymph node .

CURRENT THERAPY
The patient is to start Tarceva today .

PREVIOUS THERAPY
She had a right lower lobectomy on January 28 , 2010 . She received 1 cycle of adjuvant cisplatin / pemetrexed ; however , she had an intolerable gastric gastrointestinal side effects , and the treatment was discontinued .

OTHER MEDICAL PROBLEMS
1 .
The patient has a history of ductal carcinoma in situ , which was extensive and she ended up requiring double mastectomy and reconstruction . On final pathology , she had invasive component measuring 0.8 cm and was grade 1 . She was treated with adjuvant tamoxifen that was stopped because of initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy for lung cancer .

2 .
The patient is a lifetime nonsmoker .

INTERVAL HISTORY
On today 's visit , Ms. Hanson returns to clinic today 3 weeks after her initial dose of chemotherapy . As stated previously , she did not tolerate the treatment due to gastrointestinal toxicities . She continues to feel " poisoned . " She feels tired and slow in energy . However , she is taking Percocet every 12 hours due to a chronic dry cough , along with pain to the surgical site . She also just arrived from Hawaii this morning , which could be contributing to her fatigue . As previously mentioned , she does have a dry cough , for which she had a pulmonary consult a while back , and they believed that it may be due to heartburn versus allergies , and was started on antihistamines , as well as Prilosec . These medications did not assist with the cough and she has followup with Dr. Woods , her surgeon , in the next month . Ms. Hanson also reports that she has hot flashes ever since discontinuing tamoxifen and questions whether she should restart . Otherwise she denies any fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , constipation , diarrhea . She has shortness of breath with exertion ; however , she feels is mildly improved from her previous examination with us . She was able to do short hikes while she was in Hawaii . Otherwise , she denies any new headaches or localized bony pain .

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Her weight today was 59.9 kg . Temperature 36.8 , heart rate 80 , respiratory 16 , blood pressure 124 / 64 . This is a well-developed , well-nourished female in no apparent distress , breathing comfortably on room air , accompanied by her 2 daughters .

HEENT / NECK : Pupils equal , round , react to light and accommodation . Sclerae is clear , anicteric , noninjected . Oral cavity is clear without lesions or thrush . There is no palpable lymphadenopathy in cervical , suboccipital , supraclavicular , or axilla .
LUNGS : Clear to auscultation , however decreased to right base .
CARDIAC EXAMINATION : Revealed regular rhythm . No S3 or S4 .
ABDOMEN : Soft , nontender , without hepatosplenomegaly , masses .
EXTREMITIES : There is mild edema to her pedals .
NEUROLOGIC : Grossly nonfocal .

LABORATORY STUDIES
Chemistry panel notable for potassium 3.6 , LDH is 206 . Complete blood count was within normal limits .

IMPRESSION AND PLAN
Ms. Hanson is a 50 - year - old female with history of non-small cell lung cancer , stage II , and microscopic involvement of 1 lymph node . She also has a history of ductal carcinoma in situ , for which she was previously treated with tamoxifen . She received 1 cycle of cisplatin and Alimta 3 weeks ago , in which she had horrible gastrointestinal toxicity and the treatment was discontinued . On today 's visit , she feels like she is slowly recovering from all the chemotherapy toxicities ; however , still feels tired and slow . As stated previously , this may be secondary to the narcotic use for pain control . Otherwise her activity level has been up to par , and she is able to do all daily activities without any assistance . She does have some anxiety regarding continued discomfort to her surgical site as well as her dry cough . We did inform her that it is expected to have pain issues following her surgery and she is to see Dr. Woods in the near future to workup on her dry cough . Otherwise , Ms. Hanson will start on Tarceva and follow up with us in 2 weeks for toxicity check .

Tamoxifen . We spoke with Dr. Linden today and we are to hold tamoxifen until Ms. Hanson has been on Tarceva for a few months to assess for tolerability . At that time , we will refer Ms. Hanson back to Dr. Linden for possible start of aromatase inhibitor .

25 minutes were spent with the patient , more than 50 % of the time spent in counseling and coordination of care .
